# 1.

Let $G = \langle x : x^3 = 1 \rangle \cong C_3$, and let $V$ be the 2-dimensional $\mathbb{C}G$-module with basis $v_1, v_2$, where
$$v_1x = v_2, \quad v_2x = -v_1 - v_2.$$(This is a CG-module, by Exercise 3.2.)
Express $V$ as a direct sum of irreducible $\mathbb{C}G$-submodules.

# 2.

If $G = C_2 \times C_2$, express the group algebra $\mathbb{R}G$ as a direct sum of 1-dimensional $\mathbb{R}G$-submodules.

# 3.

Find a group $G$, a $\mathbb{C}G$-module $V$ and a $\mathbb{C}G$-homomorphism $\psi: V \to V$ such that $V \neq \text{Ker } \psi \oplus \text{Im } \psi$.

# 4.

Let $G$ be a finite group and let $\rho: G \to \text{GL}(2, \mathbb{C})$ be a representation of $G$. Suppose that there are elements $g, h$ in $G$ such that the matrices $\rho(g)$ and $\rho(h)$ do not commute. Prove that $\rho$ is irreducible.
(You may care to revisit Example 5.5(2) and Exercises 5.1, 5.3, 5.4, 6.6 in the light of this result.)

# 5.

Suppose that $G$ is the infinite group
$$\left\{ \begin{pmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ n & 1 \end{pmatrix} : n \in \mathbb{Z} \right\}$$
and let $V$ be the $\mathbb{C}G$-module $\mathbb{C}^2$, with the natural multiplication by elements of $G$ (so that for $v \in V$, $g \in G$, the vector $vg$ is just the product of the row vector $v$ with the matrix $g$).
Show that $V$ is not completely reducible.
(**This shows that Maschke's Theorem fails for infinite groups compare - Example 8.2(2).**)

# 6.

An alternative proof of Maschke's Theorem for $\mathbb{C}G$-modules.

Let $V$ be a $\mathbb{C}G$-module with basis $v_1, \dots, v_n$ and suppose that $U$ is a $\mathbb{C}G$-submodule of $V$. Define a complex inner product $( \cdot, \cdot )$ on $V$ as follows: for $\sum_{i=1}^n \lambda_i v_i, \sum_{j=1}^n \mu_j v_j \in V$,
$$\left( \sum_{i=1}^n \lambda_i v_i, \sum_{j=1}^n \mu_j v_j \right) = \sum_{i=1}^n \lambda_i \overline{\mu_i}.$$Define another complex inner product $[ \cdot, \cdot ]$ on $V$ by$$[u, v] = \sum_{x \in G} (ux, vx) \quad (u, v \in V).$$(1) Verify that $[ \cdot, \cdot ]$ is a complex inner product, which satisfies$$[ug, vg] = [u, v] \text{ for all } u, v \in V \text{ and } g \in G.$$(2) Suppose that $U$ is a $\mathbb{C}G$-submodule of $V$, and define$$U^\perp = \{ v \in V : [u, v] = 0 \text{ for all } u \in U \}.$$
Show that $U^\perp$ is a $\mathbb{C}G$-submodule of $V$.

(3) Deduce Maschke's Theorem. (Hint: it is a standard property of complex inner products that $V = U \oplus U^\perp$ for all subspaces $U$ of $V$.)

# 7.

Prove that for every finite simple group $G$, there exists a faithful irreducible $\mathbb{C}G$-module.