
# 7.30.
 Prove that $\text{Aut}(T) \cong S_2 \wr S_5$, where $T$ is the graph in Figure 7.1. (Hint. Every $\phi \in \text{Aut}(T)$ is completely determined by its behavior on the outer ring consisting of all vertices of the form $a_i$ or $b_i$.)
 
 
 
# 7.31.
 Prove that $\mathbb{Z}_2 \wr \mathbb{Z}_2 \cong D_8$. (Hint. $\mathbb{Z}_2 \wr \mathbb{Z}_2$ has several involutions.)
 


# 7.32.
 If both $D$ and $Q$ are solvable, then $D \wr Q$ is solvable.



# 7.33.
**Definition.** Let $D$ be a (multiplicative) group. A **monomial matrix** $u$ over $D$ is a permutation matrix $P$ whose nonzero entries have been replaced by elements of $D$; we say that $P$ is the **support** of $u$. If $Q$ is a group of $n \times n$ permutation matrices, then
$$ M(D, Q) = \{ \text{all monomial matrices } u \text{ over } D \text{ with support in } Q \}. $$
(i) Prove that $M(D, Q)$ is a group under matrix multiplication.
(ii) Prove that the subgroup $Q \cong M(1, Q) \le M(D, Q)$.
(iii) Prove that the diagonal $M(D, 1)$ is isomorphic to the direct product $D \times \cdots \times D$ ($n$ times).
(iv) Prove that $M(D, 1) \triangleleft M(D, Q)$ and that $M(D, Q)$ is a semidirect product of $M(D, 1)$ by $M(1, Q)$.
(v) Prove that $M(D, Q) \cong D \wr Q$. (This is not the most general wreath product, however [though it does describe regular wreath products], for $\Omega = \{1, 2, \dots, n\}$ is a faithful $Q$-set here.)



# 7.34.
 (i) Fix a group $Q$ and a finite $Q$-set $\Omega$. For all groups $D$ and $A$ and all homomorphisms $f: D \to A$, there is a homomorphism $M(f): M(D, Q) \to M(A, Q)$ such that $M(1_D) = 1_{M(D,Q)}$ and, whenever $g: A \to B$, then $M(gf) = M(g)M(f)$. (Hint. Just replace every nonzero entry $x$ of a monomial matrix over $D$ by $f(x)$.) (In categorical language, this exercise shows that wreath product is a functor.)
(ii) If $D$ is abelian, show that determinant $\det: M(D, Q) \to D$ is a (well defined) homomorphism.



# 7.35.
 If $(a, x) \in D \wr Q$ (so that $a \in K = \prod_{g \in Q} D_g$), then
$$ (a, x)^n = (a a^x a^{x^2} \dots a^{x^{n-1}}, x^n). $$


# 7.36.
Let $X = B_1 \cup \dots \cup B_m$ be a partition of a set $X$ in which each $B_i$ has $k$ elements. If
$$ G = \{ g \in S_X : \text{for each } i, \text{there is } j \text{ with } g(B_i) = B_j \}, $$
then $G \cong S_k \wr S_m$.