
# 7.7.
 If $G$ is a finite nonabelian $p$-group, then $p^2 \mid |\text{Aut}(G)|$.
 

# 7.8.
 If $G$ is a finite abelian group, then $\text{Aut}(G)$ is abelian if and only if $G$ is cyclic.
 
 
# 7.9.
(i) If $G$ is a finite abelian group with $|G| > 2$, then $\text{Aut}(G)$ has even order.
(ii) If $G$ is not abelian, then $\text{Aut}(G)$ is not cyclic. (Hint. Show that $\text{Inn}(G)$ is not cyclic.)
(iii) There is no finite group $G$ with $\text{Aut}(G)$ cyclic of odd order $> 1$.



# 7.10.
 Show that $|GL(2, p)| = (p^2 - 1)(p^2 - p)$. (Hint. How many ordered bases are in a two-dimensional vector space over $\mathbb{Z}_p$?)



# 7.11.
 If $G$ is a finite group and $\text{Aut}(G)$ acts transitively on $G^* = G - \{1\}$, then $G$ is an elementary abelian group.
 
 
 
# 7.12.
 If $H$ and $K$ are finite groups whose orders are relatively prime, then $\text{Aut}(H \times K) \cong \text{Aut}(H) \times \text{Aut}(K)$. Show that this may fail if $(|H|, |K|) > 1$. (Hint. Take $H = \mathbb{Z}_2 = K$.)



# 7.13.
 Prove that $\text{Aut}(Q_8) \cong S_4$. (Hint. $\text{Inn}(Q_8) \cong V$ and it equals its own centralizer in $\text{Aut}(Q_8)$; use Theorem 7.1 with $G = \text{Aut}(Q_8)$ and $H = \text{Inn}(Q_8)$.)
 
 Soln.
$$Z(Q_8) = \{ \pm 1 \} \cong \mathbb{Z}_2$$
$$Q_8 / Z(Q_8) \cong V_4, \text{ so } \operatorname{Inn}(Q_8) \cong V_4$$


$$N_{\text{Aut}(Q_8)}(\operatorname{Inn}(Q_8))/C_{\text{Aut}(Q_8)}(\operatorname{Inn}(Q_8)) \hookrightarrow \operatorname{Aut}(\operatorname{Inn}(Q_8)) \cong \text{Aut}(V_4) \cong S_3$$
$$\operatorname{Inn}(Q_8) \trianglelefteq \operatorname{Aut}(Q_8) \quad \text{{so,}} \quad N_{\text{Aut}(Q_8)}(\operatorname{Inn}(Q_8)) = Q_{8}$$


$$\operatorname{Aut}(Q_8)/\operatorname{Inn}(Q_8) \hookrightarrow S_3$$

$$|\operatorname{Aut}(Q_8)| = |\operatorname{Inn}(Q_8)| \cdot |\operatorname{Out}(Q_8)| \le 4 \cdot 6 = 24$$
 
 https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/195932/automorphism-group-of-the-quaternion-group
 
# 7.14.
(i) Show that $\text{Hol}(\mathbb{Z}_2) \cong \mathbb{Z}_2$, $\text{Hol}(\mathbb{Z}_3) \cong S_3$, $\text{Hol}(\mathbb{Z}_4) \cong D_8$, and $\text{Hol}(\mathbb{Z}_6) \cong D_{12}$.
(ii) If $P$ is a Sylow 5-subgroup of $S_5$, then $\text{Hol}(\mathbb{Z}_5) \cong N_{S_5}(P)$. (Hint. See Exercise 4.20.)



# 7.15.
Prove that $\text{Aut}(D_8) \cong D_8$, but that $\text{Aut}(D_{16}) \not\cong D_{16}$.



# 7.16.
Is $\text{Aut}(A_4) \cong S_cong S_6$?



# 7.17.
 If $G = B \times K$ and $B \le L \le G$, then $L = B \times (L \cap K)$.



# 7.18.
 If $H < G$, prove that
$$ \{ \phi \in \text{Aut}(G) : \text{fixes } H \text{ pointwise and } \phi(g)H = gH \text{ for all } g \in G \} $$
is an abelian subgroup of $\text{Aut}(G)$.



# 7.19.
 (i) Prove that the alternating groups $A_n$ are never complete.
(ii) Show that if $G$ is a complete group with $G \neq G'$, then $G$ is not the commutator subgroup of any group containing it. Conclude that $S_n$, for $n \neq 2, 6$, is never a commutator subgroup.



# 7.20.
 If $G$ is a complete group, then $\text{Hol}(G) \cong G \times G$. Conclude, for $n \ge 2$ and $n \neq 6$, that $\text{Hol}(S_n) \cong S_n \times S_n$.


# 7.21.
 Prove that every automorphism of a group $G$ is the restriction of an inner automorphism of $\text{Hol}(G)$.


# 7.22.
 Let $G$ be a group and let $f \in S_G$. Prove that $f \in \text{Hol}(G)$ if and only if $f(xy^{-1}z) = f(x)f(y)^{-1}f(z)$ for all $x, y, z \in G$.