# 5.15.
 Every refinement of a solvable series is a solvable series.

# 5.16.
A solvable group having a composition series must be finite.

# 5.17
 If $G$ has a composition series and if $H < G$, then $G$ has a composition series one of whose terms is $H$.
 
# 5.18
(i) If $S$ and $T$ are solvable subgroups of $G$ with $S \triangleleft G$, then $ST$ is solvable.
(ii) Every finite group $G$ has a unique maximal normal solvable subgroup $S(G)$; moreover, $G/S(G)$ has no nontrivial normal solvable subgroups.

# 5.19
(i) If $p$ and $q$ are primes, then every group of order $p^2q$ is solvable.
(ii) If $p$ and $q$ are primes with $p < q$, then every group of order $pq^n$ is solvable. (Hint. Use Sylow's theorems.)

# 5.20.
(i) Show that $S_4$ has no series
$$S_4 = G_0 \ge G_1 \ge \dots \ge G_n = 1$$
such that all factor groups are cyclic and each $G_i$ is a normal subgroup of $G$. (A group $G$ with such a series is called **supersolvable**, and we now see that not every solvable group is **supersolvable**.)
(ii) Show that every finite $p$-group is **supersolvable**.

# 5.21.
If $G$ is a group with $|G| < 60$, then $G$ is solvable. (Hint. Use Exercise 4.36.)

# 5.22.
 Burnside proved (using Representation Theory) that the number of elements in a conjugacy class of a finite simple group can never be a prime power larger than 1. Use this fact to prove Burnside's theorem: If $p$ and $q$ are primes, then every group of order $p^aq^b$ is solvable.

# 5.23.
 Prove that the following two statements are equivalent:
(i) every group of odd order is solvable;
(ii) every finite simple group has even order.
(In 1963, Feit and Thompson proved (i); the original proof is 274 pages long.)

# 5.24.
 Let $G$ be a finite group of order $> 1$. If $G$ is solvable, then $G$ contains a nontrivial normal abelian subgroup; if $G$ is not solvable, then $G$ contains a nontrivial normal subgroup $H$ with $H = H'$.

# 5.25.
 For every group $G$, its center $Z(G)$ is characteristic in $G$.

# 5.26.
 If $H \triangleleft G$ and $(|H|, [G : H]) = 1$, then $H \text{ char } G$.

# 5.27.
If $H \text{ char } G$ and $H \le K \le G$, then $K/H \text{ char } G/H$ implies $K \text{ char } G$.

# 5.28.
 Give an example of a group $G$ containing a normal subgroup that is not a characteristic subgroup. (Hint. Let $G$ be abelian.)
 
 **Definition.** A subgroup $H$ of $G$ is **fully invariant** if $\phi(H) \le H$ for every homomorphism $\phi: G \to G$.
 
Of course, every fully invariant subgroup is characteristic and hence normal.

# 5.29.
 Prove that the higher commutator subgroups are fully invariant.

# 5.30.
Show that $Z(G)$ may not be fully invariant. (Hint: Let $G = \mathbb{Z}_2 \times S_3$.) (See Exercise 5.25.)