# 5.35.
 If $G$ is nilpotent of class 2 and if $a \in G$, then the function $G \to G$, defined by $x \mapsto [a, x]$, is a homomorphism. Conclude, in this case, that $C_G(a) < G$.
 
# 5.36.
If $G$ is nilpotent of class $c$, then $G/Z(G)$ is nilpotent of class $c - 1$.

# 5.37.
 Show that the following conditions on a finite group $G$ are equivalent:
(i) $G$ is nilpotent;
(ii) $G$ satisfies the normalizer condition;
(iii) Every maximal subgroup of $G$ is normal.

# 5.38.
 If $H \le Z(G)$ and if $G/H$ is nilpotent, then $G$ is nilpotent.

**Definition.** A normal series
$$G = G_1 \ge G_2 \ge \dots \ge G_r = 1$$
with each $G_i \triangleleft G$ and $G_i/G_{i+1} \le Z(G/G_{i+1})$ is called a central series.

# 5.39.
 (i) If $G$ is nilpotent, then both the upper and lower central series of $G$ are central series.

(ii) Prove that a group $G$ is nilpotent if and only if it has a central series $G = G_1 \ge G_2 \ge \dots \ge G_r = 1$. Moreover, if $G$ is nilpotent of class $c$, then $\gamma_{i+1}(G) \le G_{i+1} \le \zeta_{c-i}(G)$ for all $i$.

# 5.40.
 If $G$ is a nilpotent group and $H$ is a minimal normal subgroup of $G$, then $H \le Z(G)$.
 
# 5.41
The dihedral group $D_{2n}$ is nilpotent if and only if $n$ is a power of 2.

# 5.42
Let $G$ be a finite nilpotent group of order $n$. If $m|n$, then $G$ has a subgroup of order $m$.


# 5.43.
(i) If $H$ and $K$ are normal nilpotent subgroups of a finite group $G$, then $HK$ is a normal nilpotent subgroup.

(ii) Every finite group $G$ has a unique maximal normal nilpotent subgroup $F(G)$ (which is called the Fitting subgroup of $G$).

(iii) Show that $F(G) \text{ char } G$ when $G$ is finite.

  

# 5.44.
 (i) Show that $\gamma_i(UT(n, \mathbb{Z}_p))$ consists of all upper triangular matrices with $1$'s on the main diagonal and $0$'s on the $i - 1$ superdiagonals just above the main diagonal (Hint. If $A$ is unitriangular, consider powers of $A - E$, where $E$ is the identity matrix.)

(ii) The group $UT(n, \mathbb{Z}_p)$ of all $n \times n$ unitriangular matrices over $\mathbb{Z}_p$ is a $p$-group that is nilpotent of class $n - 1$.

  
# 5.45
For each $n \ge 1$, let $G_n$ be a finite $p$-group of class $n$. Define $H$ to be the group of all sequences $(g_1, g_2, \dots)$, with $g_n \in G_n$ for all $n$ and with $g_n = 1$ for all large $n$; that is, $g_n \neq 1$ for only a finite number of $g_n$. Show that $H$ is an infinite $p$-group which is not nilpotent.

  
# 5.46.
If $x, y \in G$, denote $yxy^{-1}$ by $x^y$. If $x, y, z \in G$, prove

$$[x, yz] = [x, y] [x, z]^y$$

and

$$[xy, z] = [y, z]^x [x, z].$$

(Recall that $[x, y] = xyx^{-1}y^{-1}$.)

  

# 5.47.
(Jacobi identity). If $x, y, z \in G$, denote $[x, [y, z]]$ by $[x, y, z]$. Prove that

$$[x, y^{-1}, z]^y [y, z^{-1}, x]^z [z, x^{-1}, y]^x = 1.$$

  
# 5.48
 (i) Let $H, K, L$ be subgroups of $G$, and let $[H, K, L] = \langle [h, k, l] : h \in H, k \in K, l \in L \rangle$. Show that if $[H, K, L] = 1 = [K, L, H]$, then $[L, H, K] = 1$.

(ii) (Three subgroups lemma). If $N \triangleleft G$ and $[H, K, L][K, L, H] \le N$, then $[L, H, K] \le N$.

(iii) If $H, K$, and $L$ are all normal subgroups of $G$, then $[L, H, K] \le [H, K, L][K, L, H]$. (Hint. Set $N = [H, K, L][K, L, H]$.)

  

# 5.49
 If $G$ is a group with $G = G'$, then $G/Z(G)$ is centerless. (Hint. Use the three subgroups lemma with $H = Z(G)$ and $K = L = G$.)

  

# 5.50
 Prove that $[\gamma_i(G), \gamma_j(G)] \le \gamma_{i+j}(G)$ for all $i, j$. (Hint. Use the three subgroups lemma.)

  
# 5.51.
If $H \triangleleft G$ and $H \cap G' = 1$, then $H \le Z(G)$ (and so $H$ is abelian).


