
# 6.16.
 A commutative ring $R$ itself is an $R$-module (if $r, s \in R$, define scalar multiplication $rs$ to be the given product of two elements in $R$). Show that the submodules of $R$ are its ideals.
 
 

# 6.17.
(i) The intersection of any family of submodules of an $R$-module $V$ is itself a submodule.
(ii) If $X$ is a subset of $V$, let $\langle X \rangle$ denote the submodule generated by $X$; that is, $\langle X \rangle$ is the intersection of all the submodules of $V$ containing $X$. If $X \neq \emptyset$, show that $\langle X \rangle$ is the set of all $R$-linear combinations of elements of $X$; that is,
$$ \langle X \rangle = \{ \text{finite sums } r_i x_i : r_i \in R \text{ and } x_i \in X \}. $$
In particular, the cyclic submodule generated by $v$, denoted by $\langle v \rangle$, is $\{ rv : r \in R \}$.



# 6.18.
 An $R$-module $V$ is called finitely generated if there is a finite subset $X$ with $V = \langle X \rangle$.
(i) If $R$ is a field, prove that an $R$-module $V$ is finitely generated if and only if it is finite-dimensional.
(ii) Prove that an abelian group ($\mathbb{Z}$-module) $G$ is finite if and only if $G$ is finitely generated and every element in $G$ has finite order.




# 6.19.
Let $V_T$ be the $k[x]$-module of Example 6.2. Prove that $W$ is a submodule if and only if $W$ is a subspace of $V$ for which $T(W) \subseteq W$ ($W$ is often called a $T$-invariant subspace of $V$).


**Definition.** If $V$ and $W$ are $R$-modules, then their direct sum is the direct sum $V \oplus W$ of abelian groups equipped with the scalar multiplication $r(v, w) = (rv, rw)$.


# 6.20.
If $W_1, \dots, W_t$ are submodules of an $R$-module $V$, then $V = W_1 \oplus \cdots \oplus W_t$ if and only if $V = W_1 + \cdots + W_t$ (i.e., every $v \in V$ is a sum $v = \sum_{i=1}^t w_i$, where $w_i \in W_i$) and $W_i \cap (\sum_{j \neq i} W_j) = 0$ for all $i$.