
# 6.29.

 Show that the following groups are indecomposable: $\mathbb{Z}$; $\mathbb{Z}_{p^\infty}$; $\mathbb{Q}$; $S_n$ for $n \neq 2$; $D_{2n}$ for $n \neq 2$; $Q_{2^n}$; simple groups; nonabelian groups of order $p^3$; $A_4$; the group $T$ of order 12 (see Theorem 4.24).



# 6.30.
Assuming the Basis Theorem, use the Krull-Schmidt theorem to prove the Fundamental Theorem of Finite Abelian Groups.



# 6.31.
 If $G$ has both chain conditions, then there is no proper subgroup $H$ of $G$ with $G \cong H$, and there is no proper normal subgroup $K$ of $G$ with $G/K \cong G$.



# 6.32.
Assume that $G$ has both chain conditions. If there is a group $H$ with $G \times G \cong H \times H$, then $G \cong H$. (Hint. Use Lemma 6.29(ii).)



# 6.33.
$^5$ Let $G$ have both chain conditions. If $G = A \times B$ and $G = A \times C$, then $B \cong C$.



# 6.34.
Let $G$ be the additive group of $\mathbb{Z}[x]$. Prove that $G \times \mathbb{Z} \cong G \times \mathbb{Z} \times \mathbb{Z}$, but that $\mathbb{Z} \not\cong \mathbb{Z} \times \mathbb{Z}$.

**Definition.** A subgroup $H \le G$ is **subnormal** if there is a normal series
$$ G = G_0 \ge G_1 \ge G_2 \ge \dots \ge G_n = H. $$

$^5$ R. Hirshon (Amer. Math. Monthly 76 (1969), pp. 1037-1039) proves that if $A$ is finite and $B$ and $C$ are arbitrary groups, then $A \times B \cong A \times C$ implies $B \cong C$.



# 6.35.
(i) Give an example of a subgroup that is not subnormal.
(ii) Give an example of a subnormal subgroup that is not a normal subgroup.
(iii) If $G$ has a composition series and if $H$ is subnormal in $G$, then $G$ has a composition series one of whose terms is $H$.
(iv) A group $G$ has a composition series if and only if it has both chain conditions on subnormal subgroups.