
# 6.9.
 If $G$ and $H$ are finite abelian groups, then
$$U_p(n, G \oplus H) = U_p(n, G) + U_p(n, H)$$
for all primes $p$ and all $n \ge 0$.



# 6.10.
(i) If $A, B$, and $C$ are finite abelian groups with $A \oplus C \cong B \oplus C$, then $A \cong B$. (Hint. Exercise 6.9.)
(ii) If $A$ and $B$ are finite abelian groups for which $A \oplus A \cong B \oplus B$, then $A \cong B$.



# 6.11.
 (i) If $p$ is a prime and $e \ge 1$, then the number of **nonisomorphic** abelian groups of order $p^e$ is $P(e)$, the number of partitions of $e$.
(ii) The number of **nonisomorphic** abelian groups of order $n = \prod_{i=1}^k p_i^{e_i}$ is $\prod_{i=1}^k P(e_i)$, where the $p_i$ are distinct primes and the $e_i$ are positive integers.
(iii) How many abelian groups are there of order $864 = 2^5 \cdot 3^3$?



# 6.12.
 (i) Let $G = \langle a \rangle \times \langle b \rangle$, where both $\langle a \rangle$ and $\langle b \rangle$ are cyclic of order $p^2$. If $H = \langle pa \rangle \times \langle pb \rangle$, compare $U_p(n, G)$ with $U_p(n, H)$ and $U_p(n, G/H)$.
(ii) Let $G$ and $H$ be finite abelian groups. If, for each $k$, both $G$ and $H$ have the same number of elements of order $k$, then $G \cong H$. (Compare Exercise 4.33.)



# 6.13.
 If $G$ is a finite abelian group and $H \le G$, then $G$ contains a subgroup isomorphic to $G/H$. (Compare Exercise 4.29.)
 

**Remark.** The best solution to this exercise uses character groups; see Theorem 10.55.


# 6.14.
What are the elementary divisors of $U(\mathbb{Z}_n)$, the multiplicative group of all congruence classes $[a] \pmod{n}$ with $(a, n) = 1$?



# 6.15
Use the Fundamental Theorem of Finite Abelian Groups to prove the Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic. (Hint. If $n = p_1^{e_1} \cdots p_k^{e_k}$, then Exercise 2.62(ii) gives $\mathbb{Z}/n\mathbb{Z} \cong \bigoplus_{i=1}^k \mathbb{Z}/p_i^{e_i}\mathbb{Z}$.)


























