
# 1.4. 
 1.4. Prove that $(1 \ 2 \ \dots \ r - 1 \ r) = (2 \ 3 \ \dots \ r \ 1) = (3 \ 4 \ \dots \ 1 \ 2) = \dots = (r \ 1 \ \dots \ r - 1)$. Conclude that there are exactly $r$ such notations for this $r$-cycle.


---

# 1.5.
 If $1 \le r \le n$, then there are $(1/r) [n(n - 1) \dots (n - r + 1)]$ $r$-cycles in $S_n$.


---

# 1.6.
 Prove the cancellation law for permutations: if either $\gamma \beta = \gamma \eta$ or $\beta \gamma = \eta \gamma$, then $\beta = \eta$.

---

# 1.7.
 Let $\gamma = (i_1 \ i_2 \ \dots \ i_r)$ and $\beta = (j_1 \ j_2 \ \dots \ j_s)$. Prove that $\gamma$ and $\beta$ are disjoint if and only if $\{i_1, i_2, \dots, i_r\} \cap \{j_1, j_2, \dots, j_s\} = \emptyset$.


---

# 1.8.
 If $\gamma$ and $\beta$ are disjoint permutations, then $\gamma\beta = \beta\gamma$; that is, $\gamma$ and $\beta$ commute.


---

# 1.9.
 If $\gamma, \beta \in S_n$ are disjoint and $\gamma\beta = 1$, then $\gamma = 1 = \beta$.


---

# 1.10.
 If $\gamma, \beta \in S_n$ are disjoint, prove that $(\gamma\beta)^k = \gamma^k \beta^k$ for all $k \ge 0$. Is this true if $\gamma$ and $\beta$ are not disjoint? (Define $\gamma^0 = 1$, $\gamma^1 = \gamma$, and, if $k \ge 2$, define $\gamma^k$ to be the composite of $\gamma$ with itself $k$ times.)


---
# 1.11.
 Show that a power of a cycle need not be a cycle.
 
 
 ---
 
# 1.12.
(i) Let $\gamma = (i_0 \ i_1 \ \dots \ i_{r-1})$ be an $r$-cycle. For every $j, k \ge 0$, prove that $\gamma^k(i_j) = i_{k+j}$ if subscripts are read modulo $r$.

(ii) Prove that if $\gamma$ is an $r$-cycle, then $\gamma^r = 1$, but that $\gamma^k \ne 1$ for every positive integer $k < r$.

(iii) If $\gamma = \beta_1 \beta_2 \dots \beta_m$ is a product of disjoint $r_i$-cycles $\beta_i$, then the smallest positive integer $l$ with $\gamma^l = 1$ is the least common multiple of $\{r_1, r_2, \dots, r_m\}$.


---


# 1.13.
 (i) A permutation $\gamma \in S_n$ is regular if either $\gamma$ has no fixed points and it is the product of disjoint cycles of the same length or $\gamma = 1$. Prove that $\gamma$ is regular if and only if $\gamma$ is a power of an $n$-cycle $\beta$; that is, $\gamma = \beta^m$ for some $m$. (Hint: if $\gamma = (a_1 \ a_2 \ \dots \ a_d)(b_1 \ b_2 \ \dots \ b_d) \dots (z_1 \ z_2 \ \dots \ z_d)$, where there are $m$ letters $a, b, \dots, z$, then let $\beta = (a_1 \ b_1 \ \dots \ z_1 \ a_2 \ b_2 \ \dots \ z_2 \ \dots \ a_k \ b_k \ \dots \ z_k)$.)

 (ii) If $\gamma$ is an $n$-cycle, then $\gamma^k$ is a product of $(n, k)$ disjoint cycles, each of length $n/(n, k)$. (Recall that $(n, k)$ denotes the gcd of $n$ and $k$.)

 (iii) If $p$ is a prime, then every power of a $p$-cycle is either a $p$-cycle or $1$.



---
# 1.14.
 (i) Let $\alpha = \beta \gamma$ in $S_n$, where $\beta$ and $\gamma$ are disjoint. If $\beta$ moves $i$, then $\alpha^k(i) = \beta^k(i)$ for all $k \ge 0$.
 
 (ii) Let $\alpha$ and $\beta$ be cycles in $S_n$ (we do not assume that they have the same length). If there is $i_1$ moved by both $\alpha$ and $\beta$ and if $\alpha^k(i_1) = \beta^k(i_1)$ for all positive integers $k$, then $\alpha = \beta$.