
# 4.21
 $A_5$ is a group of order 60 containing no subgroups of order 15 or of order 30.
 
 
# 4.22.
If $G$ is the subgroup of $GL(2, \mathbb{C})$ generated by
$$ A = \begin{pmatrix} 0 & i \\ i & 0 \end{pmatrix} \quad \text{and} \quad B = \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ -1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}. $$

# 4.23.
The division ring $\mathbb{H}$ of **real quaternions** is a four-dimensional vector space over $\mathbb{R}$ having a basis $\{1, i, j, k\}$ with multiplication satisfying
$$ i^2 = j^2 = k^2 = -1, $$
$$ ij = k, \quad jk = i, \quad ki = j, \quad ji = -k, \quad kj = -i, \quad ik = -j $$
(these equations eight determine the multiplication on all of $\mathbb{H}$.) Show that the eight elements $\{\pm 1, \pm i, \pm j, \pm k\}$ form a multiplicative group isomorphic to $Q$.
4.24. Show that $Q$ has a unique element of order 2, and that this element generates $Z(Q)$.



# 4.24.
 Prove that $D_8 \not\cong Q$.


# 4.25.
 Prove that $Q$ contains no subgroup isomorphic to $Q/Z(Q)$.
 
 
# 4.26.
Prove that every subgroup of $Q$ is normal.


# 4.27.
 Let $G = Q_8 \times A \times B$, where $A$ is a (necessarily abelian) group of exponent 2 and $B$ is an abelian group in which every element has odd order. Prove that every subgroup of $G$ is normal. (Dedekind proved the converse: if $G$ is a finite group in which every subgroup is normal, then $G = Q_8 \times A \times B$ as above.)
Groups with this property are called **hamiltonian**, after W.R. Hamilton who discovered $Q_8$.



# 4.28.
Let $G = Q \times A \times B$, where $A$ is a (necessarily abelian) group of exponent 2 and $B$ is an abelian group in which every element has odd order. Prove that every subgroup of $G$ is normal. (Dedekind proved the converse: if $G$ is a finite group in which every subgroup is normal, then $G = Q \times A \times B$ as above.)

Groups with this property are called **hamiltonian**, after W.R. Hamilton who discovered $Q_8$.


# 4.29.
 Let $SL(2, 5)$ denote the multiplicative group of all $2 \times 2$ matrices over $\mathbb{Z}_5$ which have determinant 1.

(i) Show that $|SL(2, 5)| = 120$.

(ii) Show that $Q_8$ is isomorphic to a Sylow 2-subgroup of $SL(2, 5)$. (Hint. Show that $SL(2, 5)$ has a unique involution.)

(iii) Show that a Sylow 2-subgroup of $S_5$ is $D_8$, and conclude that $SL(2, 5) \not\cong S_5$.

(iv) Show that $A_5$ cannot be imbedded in $SL(2, 5)$.

  

# 4.30
 For every divisor $d$ of 24, show that there is a subgroup of $S_4$ of order $d$. Moreover, if $d \neq 4$, then any two subgroups of order $d$ are isomorphic.



# 4.31.
Exhibit all the subgroups of $S_4$; aside from $S_4$ and $1$, there are 26 of them.



# 4.32.
 (i) Let $p$ be a prime. By Exercise 4.17, $P = UT(3, \mathbb{Z}_p)$ is a Sylow $p$-subgroup of $GL(3, \mathbb{Z}_p)$. If $p$ is odd, prove that $P$ is a nonabelian group of order $p^3$ of exponent $p$. (Compare Exercise 1.26.) If $p=2$, show that $UT(3, \mathbb{Z}_2) \cong Q$.

(ii) Let $p$ be an odd prime. Prove that there are at most two nonabelian groups of order $p^3$. One is given in part (i) and has exponent $p$; the other has generators $a$ and $b$ satisfying the relations $a^{p^2} = 1$, $b^p = 1$, and $bab^{-1} = a^{1+p}$. (This group will be shown to exist in Example 7.16.)



# 4.33.
 Give an example of two **nonisomorphic** groups $G$ and $H$ such that, for each positive integer $d$, the number of elements in $G$ of order $d$ is equal to the number of elements in $H$ of order $d$.



# 4.34.
 If $G$ is a group of order 8 having only one involution, then either $G \cong Z_{8}$ or $G \cong Q$.



# 4.35.
If $p$ and $q$ are primes, then there is no simple group of order $p^2q$.



# 4.36.
 Prove that there is no nonabelian simple group of order less than 60.



# 4.37
Prove that any simple group $G$ of order 60 is isomorphic to $A_5$. (Hint. If $P$ and $Q$ are distinct Sylow 2-subgroups having a nontrivial element $x$ in their intersection, then $C_G(x)$ has index 5; otherwise, every two Sylow 2-subgroups intersect trivially and $N_G(P)$ has index 5.)



# 4.38
 In Corollary 7.55, we shall prove that a group of squarefree order cannot be simple. Use this result to prove that if $|G| = p_1 \cdots p_r$, where $p_1 < p_2 < \cdots < p_r$ are primes, then $G$ contains a normal Sylow $p_r$-subgroup.

**Definition.** If $n \ge 3$, a generalized quaternion group (or dicyclic group) is a group $Q_{2^n}$ of order $2^n$ generated by elements $a$ and $b$ such that
$$ a^{2^{n-1}} = 1, \quad bab^{-1} = a^{-1}, \quad \text{and} \quad b^2 = a^{2^{n-2}}. $$

# 4.39.
 Any two groups of order $2^n$ generated by a pair of elements $a$ and $b$ for which $a^{2^{n-2}} = b^2$ and $aba = b$ are isomorphic.



# 4.40.
If $G$ is a group of order $2^n$ which is generated by elements $a$ and $b$ such that
$$ a^{2^{n-2}} = b^2 = (ab)^2, $$
then $G \cong Q_{2^n}$.



# 4.41.
Prove that $Q_{2^n}$ has a unique involution $z$, and that $Z(Q_{2^n}) = \langle z \rangle$.


# 4.42.
 Prove that $Q_{2^n}/Z(Q_{2^n}) \cong D_{2^{n-1}}$.|
 
 
# 4.43.
  Let $G \le GL(2, \mathbb{C})$ be generated by
$$ A = \begin{pmatrix} 0 & \omega \\ - \omega^{-1} & 0 \end{pmatrix}, \quad B = \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ -1 & 0 \end{pmatrix} $$
where $\omega$ is a primitive $2^{n-1}$th root of unity for $n \ge 3$. Prove that $G \cong Q_{2^n}$. Conclude that $Q_{2^n}$ exists.