
# 4.9.
 (i) Let $X$ be a finite $G$-set, and let $H \le G$ act transitively on $X$. Then $G = HG_x$ for each $x \in X$.
(ii) Show that the Frattini argument follows from (i).


# 4.10.
 Let $\{P_p : p \in \Pi\}$ be a set of **Sylow** $p$-subgroups of a finite group $G$, one for each prime divisor $p$ of $|G|$. Show that $G$ is generated by $\bigcup_{p \in \Pi} P_p$.


# 4.11.
Let $P \le G$ be a **Sylow** $p$-subgroup. If $N_G(P) \le H \le G$, then $H$ is equal to its own normalizer; that is $H = N_G(H)$.


# 4.12.
If a finite group $G$ has a unique **Sylow** $p$-subgroup for each prime divisor $p$ of $|G|$, then $G$ is the direct product of its **Sylow** subgroups.


# 4.13
 (i) Let $G$ be a finite group and let $P \le G$ be a **Sylow** $p$-subgroup. If $H < G$, then $H \cap P$ is a **Sylow** $p$-subgroup of $H$ and $HP/H$ is a **Sylow** $p$-subgroup of $G/H$. (Hint. Compare orders.)
(ii) Let $G$ be a finite group and let $P \le G$ be a **Sylow** $p$-subgroup. Give an example of a (necessarily non-normal) subgroup $H$ of $G$ with $H \cap P$ not a **Sylow** $p$-subgroup of $H$.


# 4.14.
 Prove that a **Sylow** 2-subgroup of $A_5$ has exactly 5 conjugates.
 

# 4.15.
(i) Prove that a **Sylow** 2-subgroup of $S_5$ is isomorphic to $D_8$.
(ii) Prove that $D_8 \times Z_2$ is isomorphic to a **Sylow** 2-subgroup of $S_6$.


# 4.16.
If $Q$ is a normal $p$-subgroup of a finite group $G$, then $Q \le P$ for every **Sylow** $p$-subgroup $P$.


**Definition.** An $n \times n$ matrix $A$ over a commutative ring $R$ is **unitriangular** if it has $0$'s below the diagonal and $1$'s on the diagonal. The set of all unitriangular $3 \times 3$ matrices over $\mathbb{Z}_p$ is denoted by $UT(3, \mathbb{Z}_p)$.


# 4.17.
 (i) Show that $|GL(3, \mathbb{Z}_p)| = (p^3 - 1)(p^3 - p)(p^3 - p^2)$.
(ii) If $p$ is a prime, then $UT(3, \mathbb{Z}_p)$ is a Sylow $p$-subgroup of $GL(3, \mathbb{Z}_p)$.
(iii) Show that the center of $UT(3, \mathbb{Z}_p)$ consists of all matrices of the form$$ \begin{pmatrix} 1 & 0 & x \\ 0 & 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix}. $$


# 4.18.
 Show that a finite group $G$ can have three **Sylow** $p$-subgroups $A, B$, and $C$ such that $A \cap B = 1$ and $A \cap C \neq 1$. (Hint. Take $G = S_3 \times S_3$.)



# 4.19.
Let $|G| = p^n m$, where $p \nmid m$. If $s \le n$ and $r_s$ is the number of subgroups of $G$ of order $p^s$, then $r_s \equiv 1 \pmod{p}$.



# 4.20.
 (i) Let $\sigma = (1\ 2\ 3\ 4\ 5)$, let $P = \langle \sigma \rangle \le S_5$, and let $N = N_{S_5}(P)$. Show that $|N| = 20$ and $N = \langle \sigma, \tau \rangle$, where $\tau = (2\ 3\ 5\ 4)$.
(ii) If $A$ is the group (under composition),
$$ A = \{ \phi: \mathbb{Z}_5 \to \mathbb{Z}_5 : \phi(x) = \alpha x + \beta, \alpha, \beta \in \mathbb{Z}_5, \alpha \neq 0 \}, $$
then $N_{S_5}(P) \cong A$. (Hint. Show that $A = \langle s, t \rangle$, where $s: x \mapsto x + 1$, and $t: x \mapsto 2x$.)