


# 2.56.
$H$ is a maximal normal subgroup of $G$ if and only if $G/H$ is simple.


$H \text{ maximal } ⊲ G \implies G/H$ simple.

Let $\frac{A}{H} ⊲\frac{G}{H}$  wherein $H ⊴A⊴G$. Since H is a maximal subgroup, $\begin{cases} H = A \implies \frac{A}{H}=1 \\ \text{ or } A=G \implies \frac{A}{H}=\frac{G}{H} \end{cases}$.
This means that $\frac{G}{H}$ is a simple group.

**Backward step:** Now suppose that $H ⊲G$ and $\frac{G}{H}$ is simple.   
If we have $H ⊴A⊴G$ then obviously $\frac{A}{H} ⊲\frac{G}{H}$.   
By reason of the presupposition for this backward step, $\frac{G}{H}$ is simple.     
Hence $\frac{A}{H}=\frac{G}{H}$  or $\frac{A}{H} =\{H\}$ . So, $A=G$ or $H=A$.

---
Let $G$ be an abelian simple group with $|G| > 1$. We want to prove that $G$ is a cyclic group of prime order.

First note that because $G$ is abelian, then every subgroup of $G$ is normal.

Let $x \in G$ and $x \neq 1$, so $\langle x \rangle \leq G$. But because $G$ is simple, $\langle x \rangle$ must be the $G$ itself as there couldn't be any other normal subgroup of $G$, or simply $\langle x \rangle = G$.

If $|G|$ is not finite, then we could have e.g. $\langle x^2 \rangle \neq \langle x \rangle$ as another proper normal subgroup of $G$ which is a contradiction becase G is simple. (It's a proper normal subgroup because $|x^2| < |x|$.)

Hence $G = \langle x \rangle$ must be a finite group.

Let $p = |G|$. Assume $p = mn$ where $m > 1$ and $n > 1$. If that's the case, then we could have $\langle x^m \rangle$ or $\langle x^n \rangle$ as another proper normal subgroup of $G$, which is again a contradiction.

Thus $G = \langle x \rangle$ and $|G| = |x| = p$ where $p$ is a prime number.

---
If $G$ is a simple finite abelian group, then it has no non-trivial subgroups, since all subgroups are normal because $G$ is abelian. This means that $G$ is cyclic, generated by any non-trivial element $g$. Let $n$ be the order of $G$. If $d$ divides $n$, then $\langle g^d \rangle$ is a subgroup of $G$. Thus, $d$ can only be $1$ or $n$, and so $n$ is prime.

If $G$ is a finite group whose order is prime, then $G$ is cyclic, generated by any non-trivial element. This implies that $G$ has no non-trivial subgroups.

---

# 2.57.
Let $M$ be a maximal subgroup of $G$; that is, there is no subgroup $S$ with $M < S < G$. Prove that if $M \triangleleft G$, then $[G: M]$ is finite and equal to a prime.

Since $M \triangleleft G$, by the Correspondence Theorem, subgroups of $G/M$ correspond to subgroups of $G$ containing $M$. If $[G:M]$ were not prime, then $G/M$ would have a proper nontrivial subgroup $S/M$, meaning $M < S < G$, contradicting the maximality of $M$. Thus, $G/M$ has no nontrivial subgroups, implying it has prime order.

---

# 2.58.
Let $M$ be a maximal subgroup of $G$; that is, there is no subgroup $S$ with $M < S < G$. Prove that if $M \triangleleft G$, then $[G: M]$ is finite and equal to a prime.

Since $M \triangleleft G$, by the Correspondence Theorem, subgroups of $G/M$ correspond to subgroups of $G$ containing $M$. If $[G:M]$ were not prime, then $G/M$ would have a proper nontrivial subgroup $S/M$, meaning $M < S < G$, contradicting the maximality of $M$. Thus, $G/M$ has no nontrivial subgroups, implying it has prime order.


---

# 2.59.
(Schur). Let $f: G \to H$ be a homomorphism that does not send every element of $G$ into $\{1\}$. If $G$ is simple, then $f$ must be an injection.


Since $G$ is simple, the kernel of $f$, say $K$, is either $\{1\}$ or $G$. If $K = G$, then $f$ is the trivial homomorphism, contradicting the assumption that $f$ is not identically $1$. Thus, $K = \{1\}$, meaning $f$ is injective.

