As mentioned in class and in the lecture notes, you will never be tested specifically on the Axiom of Choice or Zorn’s Lemma, though you will be expected to do simple proofs using Zorn’s Lemma. This section is mostly designed for those students interested in learning a little more about the Axiom of Choice and its equivalents. You are very welcome to come to me for clarification or guidance with the harder questions in this section.
    I recommend that every student do at least the first problem in this section. The concepts introduced there will come up again in an important proof later in the course, at which time you will be expected to be familiar with them
    
    
1. For this question we will recall some definitions first presented in the supplementary notes about nets and filters.
**Definition 11.1.** Let X be a set. A nonempty collection F ⊆ P(X) is called a filter on X if the following three properties are satisfied:

 (a) ∅ ∈ F/ . 
(b) F is closed upwards: if A ∈ F and A ⊆ B, then B ∈ F.
 (c) F is closed under finite intersections: if A, B ∈ F, then A ∩ B ∈ F.
 
 A filter F on a set X is called an ultrafilter if it is not properly contained in any other filter on X.
 
 Your task: Use Zorn’s Lemma to prove that every filter on a set X is contained in (or “can be extended to”, as is often said) an ultrafilter. 
 Hint: A filter F on X is a set of subsets of X. In other words, F ∈ P(P(X)). Let F ⊆ P(P(X)) be the collection of all filters on X. Then (F, ⊆) is a partial order, to which you can apply Zorn’s Lemma—after you prove it satisfies the hypotheses of Zorn’s Lemma, of course. This is not the partial order that will solve this problem, but it is a good starting point. As a warm up exercise, first show that a filter F ∈ F is an ultrafilter if and only if it is a maximal element in this partial order.
 
 2. Here is another simple use of Zorn’s Lemma. First, a definition
   
   Definition 11.2. A subset $A \subseteq \mathbb{R}$ is called distance special if the usual distance function $d : \mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{R}$ given by $d(x, y) = |x - y|$ is injective when restricted to the set $\{ (a, b) \in A \times A : a < b \}$. That is, $d(a, b) = d(c, d) > 0$ implies that $a = c$ and $b = d$, for all $a, b, c, d \in A$.
   
  For example, the set $\{ 2^n : n \in \mathbb{N} \} \subseteq \mathbb{R}$ is distance special.
  
  Your task: Use Zorn’s Lemma to show that every uncountable set B ⊆ R contains an uncountable distance special subset. 
  Hint: At one point in the proof, you may find the result of problem 4.11 useful.

3. Show that Zorn’s Lemma implies the Axiom of Choice
   Hint: Let $\mathcal{A} = \{ A_\alpha : \alpha \in I \}$ be a nonempty collection of nonempty sets. Think of a choice function on $\mathcal{A}$ as a function $f : I \to \bigcup \mathcal{A}$ such that $f(\alpha) \in A_\alpha$ for all $\alpha \in I$.

   Let $P$ be the collection of all functions $f$ such that $\text{dom}(f) \subseteq I$ and $f(\alpha) \in A_\alpha$ for all $\alpha \in \text{dom}(f)$. Define an ordering $\le$ on $P$ by saying $f \le g$ if and only if $g$ extends $f$ as a function (i.e., $\text{dom}(g) \supseteq \text{dom}(f)$, and $g(\alpha) = f(\alpha)$ for all $\alpha \in \text{dom}(f)$).                        
   Then carefully apply Zorn’s lemma to the partial order (P, ≤).
   
   4. Show that Zorn’s Lemma implies the Well-Ordering Principle. Hint: The basics of this proof are outlined in the lecture notes on the Axiom of Choice.
      
   5. Prove that the Well-Ordering Principle implies Zorn’s Lemma. This proof is not actually hard, it just requires transfinite induction. Here is a hint on how to get started. Let (P, ≤) be a partial order satisfying the hypotheses of Zorn’s Lemma. Well-order P, then inductively build a chain whose upper bound must be a maximal element of the partial order.
      
      
  6. This question will guide you through a proof that the Axiom of Choice implies Zorn’s Lemma. As with the previous problem this proof is not a very difficult one, other than the fact that it involves transfinite induction and ordinals. I am going to do most of the work for you. Your job is essentially to convince yourself that these things make sense. You do need to have some experience with ordinals though.
    This is a proof by contradiction. So suppose (P, ≤) is a counterexample to    Zorn’s Lemma. That is, a partial order in which every chain has an upper bound, but which has no maximal elements.
    
    (a) Show explicitly from the Axiom of Choice that there exist functions f and g such that for every chain C ⊆ P, f(C) is an upper bound for C, and such that for every p ∈ P, g(p) > p.
    
    (b) Using the functions from (a) and transfinite induction, define a “sequence” $\{p_\alpha\}_{\alpha \in \text{Ord}}$ (Ord is the class of ordinals) in $P$. Let $p_0$ be arbitrary. For successor ordinals $\alpha + 1$, let $p_{\alpha+1} = g(p_\alpha)$. For limit ordinals $\alpha$, let $p_\alpha = f(\{ p_\beta : \beta < \alpha \})$.
Convince yourself that this all makes sense.

    (c) Show that this “sequence” is increasing. That is, $\alpha < \beta$ implies $p_\alpha < p_\beta$. Conclude that the map $\alpha \mapsto p_\alpha$ is injective.

    (d) We have now constructed an injection Ord → P. This is a contradiction, because Ord is not a set.
    
    
  
 
 