# 1.

 Show that the functions defined in each part of Example 2.2 in the lecture notes on Metric Spaces and Metrizability are actually metrics
 Hint: One part of this is actually kind of tricky : showing that $d_2(f, g) = \sqrt{\int_0^1 |f(x) - g(x)|^2 dx}$ satisfies the triangle inequality. For that you will need the following version of **Hölder’s Inequality**  :

$$\int_0^1 |f_1(x)f_2(x)| dx \le \left( \int_0^1 |f_1(x)|^2 dx \right)^{1/2} \left( \int_0^1 |f_2(x)|^2 dx \right)^{1/2}$$

# 2.

 Let $(X_1, \mathcal{T}_1)$ and $(X_2, \mathcal{T}_2)$ be metrizable spaces. Prove that $X_1 \times X_2$ with its product topology is metrizable. (Hint: Complete the proof of Proposition 4.3 in the lecture notes.)
 
# 3.

 Prove that every metrizable space is Hausdorf.

# 4.

Let $X = C[0, 1]$ be the set of all continuous functions $f : [0, 1] \to \mathbb{R}$ (where the domain and   codomain have their usual topologies). The function $d_1 : X \times X \to \mathbb{R}$ given by

$$d_1(f, g) = \int_0^1 |f(x) - g(x)| dx$$is a metric on $X$. Show that the function $F : X \to \mathbb{R}$ given by$$F(f) = \int_0^1 f(x) dx$$

is continuous (where $X$ has the metric topology generated by $d_1$, and $\mathbb{R}$ has its usual topology).

# 5.

 This exercise completes the proof of Proposition 7.2 from the lecture notes.
  Let $(X, d)$ be a metric space. Define $\bar{d} : X \times X \to \mathbb{R}$ by $\bar{d}(x, y) = \min\{1, d(x, y)\}$. Also define $d_0 : X \times X \to \mathbb{R}$ by

$$d_0(x, y) = \frac{d(x, y)}{1 + d(x, y)}.$$

(a) Prove that $\bar{d}$ and $d_0$ are metrics.

(b) Prove that $(X, \bar{d})$ and $(X, d_0)$ are bounded metric spaces.

(c) Prove that $\bar{d}$ and $d_0$ both generate $\mathcal{T}_d$.

# 6.

Let $(X_1, d_1)$ and $(X_2, d_2)$ be metric spaces. Let $f : X_1 \to X_2$ be a surjective isometry. Prove that $f$
is a homeomorphism of topological spaces (where $X_1$ and $X_2$ have their metric topologies    generated by $d_1$ and $d_2$ respectively).

# 7.

Let $(X, d)$ be a metric space, and let $A, B \subseteq X$ be nonempty subsets, and let $x \in X$.
Define
$$d(x, A) = \inf \{ d(x, a) : a \in A \} ,$$
$$d(A, B) = \inf \{ d(a, b) : a \in A, b \in B \} .$$
(a) Show that both of these notions are well-defined.
(b) Show that if $A \cap B \neq \emptyset$, then $d(A, B) = 0$.
(c) Give an example showing that the implication in the previous part does not reverse.
That is, give an example of a metric space $(X, d)$ and two disjoint subsets $A, B \subseteq X$
such that $d(A, B) = 0$.
(d) Show that these definitions are connected in the following ways:
$$
     d(x, A) = d(\{x\}, A).\\
     
     d(A, B) = \inf \{ d(a, B) : a \in A \} = \inf \{ d(A, b) : b \in B \}.
$$
(e) Show that $A \subseteq X$ is closed (in the topology generated by $d$) if and only if $d(x, A) \neq 0$
for all $x \in X \setminus A$.

# 8.

Prove that every metrizable space is regular.
(Hint: This exercise and the next one are two-star problems if you’re seeing the ideainvolved for the first time. For us though, you can mirror the proofs that $\mathbb{R}_\text{usual}$ is regular and normal.)

# 9.

Prove that every metrizable space is normal.

# 10.

This is a multi-part, guided exercise in which you are going to prove that every metrizable ccc space is second countable, completing the proof of Proposition 5.3 from the lecture notes. You will actually prove that a metrizable ccc space is separable, and then that a metrizable separable space is second countable.

Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a metrizable, topological space with the countable chain condition. Let $d$ be a metric on $X$ that generates the topology $\mathcal{T}$. All $\epsilon$-balls we refer to below will be with respect to this metric.

(a) Fix $n \in \mathbb{N}$. Show that there exists a maximal collection of mutually disjoint $\frac{1}{n}$-balls in $X$.
(Maximal with respect to inclusion. That is, show that there is a collection $\mathcal{B}_n$ of mutually disjoint $\frac{1}{n}$-balls in $X$ that is not properly contained in any larger such collection.)
(Hint: Use Zorn’s Lemma.)

(b) For each $n \in \mathbb{N}$, suppose $\mathcal{B}_n$ is a collection as in the previous part. Let $C_n \subseteq X$ be the collection of centres of the balls in $\mathcal{B}_n$, and finally let $C = \bigcup_{n \in \mathbb{N}} C_n$. Show that $C$ is a countable, dense subset of $X$. Conclude that $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is separable.
(Hint: First, show that $C$ is countable. Next, to show it’s dense, do a proof by contradiction. Suppose $C$ is not dense, and fix an open set $U$ such that $C \cap U = \emptyset$. After a little bit of work, you can contradict the maximality of one of the $\mathcal{B}_n$'s.)
Conclude from this and the previous part that any metrizable ccc space is separable.

(c) Now that we know that $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is separable. Prove that every separable metrizable space is second countable. (Hint: Use the fact that every point in a metric space has a particularly nice countable local basis.)
# 11.

In this exercise you are going to learn about two types of convergence of sequences of functions that are very important to analysis, and prove an important fact about one of them

**Definition 12.1.**** Let $X$ be a set and let $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ be a topological space. Let $\{f_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ be a sequence of functions $f_n : X \to Y$. We say that the sequence converges pointwise to a function $f : X \to Y$ if the sequence $\{f_n(x)\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ converges to $f(x)$ for all $x \in X$.

**Definition 12.2.** Let $X$ be a set and let $(Y, d)$ be a metric space. Let $\{f_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ be a sequence of functions $f_n : X \to Y$. We say that the sequence converges uniformly to a function $f : X \to Y$ if for all $\epsilon > 0$ there is $N \in \mathbb{N}$ such that $d(f_n(x), f(x)) < \epsilon$ for all $n > N$ and for all $x \in X$.

(a) Let $X$ be a set and $(Y, d)$ a metric space, also thought of as a topological space with the topology generated by $d$. Suppose $\{f_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ is a sequence of functions $f_n : X \to Y$ that converges uniformly to a function $f$. Show that $\{f_n\}$ also converges pointwise to $f$.

(b) Find a sequence of continuous functions $f_n : [0, 1] \to [0, 1]$ that converges pointwise to the zero function, but does not converge uniformly to anything. (Here, $[0, 1]$ has its usual topology generated by its usual metric.)


 (c) Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space and $(Y, d)$ a metric space (also thought of as a topological space with the topology generated by $d$). Suppose $\{f_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ is a sequence of continuous functions $f_n : X \to Y$ that converges uniformly to a function $f$. Show that $f$ must also be continuous.

(Hint: This is an “$\epsilon/3$ proof”.)

# 12.

 This proof is quite easy, but it requires two new definitions. Neither of them are tricky.
 
 **Definition 12.3.** Let $X$ be a set and $f : X \to X$ a function. A point $x \in X$ is called a fixed point of $f$ if $f(x) = x$.

**Definition 12.4.** Let $(X, d)$ be a metric space. A function $f : X \to X$ is called a contraction if there is an $\alpha \in (0, 1)$ such that $d(f(x), f(y)) \le \alpha d(x, y)$ for all $x, y \in X$.

So, a contraction is just a map that decreases the distance between all pairs of points, by at least a fixed amount.

(a) Give an example of a metric space $(X, d)$ and a map $f : X \to X$ such that $d(f(x), f(y)) < d(x, y)$ for every distinct $x, y \in X$, but such that $f$ is not a contraction.

  

(b) Let $(X, d)$ be a metric space. Prove that every contraction $f : X \to X$ has at most one fixed point.

  
# 13.

Let $F$ be a fixed, finite set of points in $\mathbb{R}^2$. Prove that there is a unique closed ball of minimal radius containing all the points in $F$.
This result is true in $\mathbb{R}^n$ for all $n$. You may find it interesting to think about how you would have to modify your proof in higher dimensions (if at all).
If you’re a computer scientist, you should try to design an efficient algorithm that finds this ball. Try to do better than $O(n^2)$, where $n$ is the number of points in $F$.
  
# 14.

 **Theorem 12.5 (Contraction Mapping Theorem).** Let $(X, d)$ be a complete metric space, also thought of as a topological space with the topology generated by $d$. Let $f : X \to X$ be a contraction. Then $f$ has exactly one fixed point.
 
 Hint: The core idea of the proof is illustrated by this image.
  
# 15.

 Prove the **Baire Category theorem**: if $(X, d)$ is a complete metric space, then the intersection of countably many dense, open subsets of $X$ is dense.
  
  
  





 