# 1.

 Let (X, T ) be a topological space, and let B be a basis for the topology. Prove that X is compact if and only if every open cover of X consisting of basic open sets has a finite subcover. 
 
   (Interesting note: You can even replace “basic” with “subbasic”, but this fact is highly nontrivial; it is called the Alexander Subbase Theorem.)
   



# 2.

 Show that any finite union of compact subsets of a topological space is compact, and that an arbitrary intersection of compact subsets of a Hausdorff topological space is compact.

# 3.

Let $(X, d)$ be a metric space. Let $C, K \subseteq X$ be disjoint subsets such that $C$ is closed and $K$ is compact. Show that $d(C, K) > 0$, where $d(C, K) = \inf \{ d(c, x) : c \in C, x \in K \}$.

# 4.

Show that every compact metrizable space is second countable. Conclude that every compact metrizable space is hereditarily separable and hereditarily ccc.

# 5.

Show that every compact metrizable space is sequentially compact. That is, let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a compact metrizable space, and let $\{x_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ be a sequence in $X$. Show that it has a convergent subsequence.
Hint: First, take care of the case where $S = \{ x_n : n \in \mathbb{N} \}$ is finite. Now assume the sequence has no convergent subsequences. Show that for each $x \in S$, there is an $\epsilon_x > 0$ such that $B_{\epsilon_x}(x) \cap S = \{x\}$. Then show that $\mathcal{U} = \{ B_{\epsilon_x}(x) : x \in S \} \cup \{X \setminus S\}$ is a cover of $X$ with no finite subcover.

# 6.
Determine which of the following spaces are compact.
(a) $\mathbb{R}_{co-finite}$.
(b) $\mathbb{R}_{co-countable}$.
(c) $(\mathbb{R}, \mathcal{T}_7)$ (the particular point topology at 7).
(d) $(\mathbb{R}, \mathcal{T}_{ray})$.
(e) $(-\infty, \alpha]$, as subspace of $\omega_1$ with its order topology, for any $\alpha \in \omega_1$.
(f) A subset $A \subseteq \omega_1$ with no largest element.

After you have done that, try to characterize the compact subsets of each space.

# 7.

In an earlier exercise in this section, you showed that the intersection of compact subsets of a Hausdorff space is again compact. Give an example to show that Hausdorffness is necessary in that result. That is, construct a non-Hausdorff topological space (X, T ) with two compact subsets A and B such that A ∩ B is not compact. You will need to construct a space here, but you don’t have to work too hard. The easiest way to do it is to start with Ndiscrete and add some points and new open sets containing those points.

# 8.

 Let (L, ≤) be a linear order, thought of as a topological space with its order topology.
    Show that L is compact if and only if every nonempty subset of L has a least upper bound and a greatest lower bound.
    Hint: This is very similar to the “creeping along” proof that [0, 1] is compact.

# 9.

Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space, let $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ be a compact Hausdorff space, and let $f : X \to Y$ be a function. Show that $f$ is continuous if and only if the graph of $f$, which is the set
$$\Gamma_f = \{ (x, f(x)) \in X \times Y : x \in X \}$$
is closed.

Hint: The ($\Leftarrow$) direction is the tricky one. Prove this intermediary lemma first, then the result follows:

**Lemma**. Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space, and $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ a compact space. Then the first projection function $\pi_1 : X \times Y \to X$ is closed. 

# 10.

In this exercise we are going to define a new topological space called the Cantor set that is one of the most classic (and most counterintuitive) examples in point set topology.

Let $C_0 = [0, 1]$, with its usual topology. Let $C_1 = [0, \frac{1}{3}] \cup [\frac{2}{3}, 1]$. Let $C_2 = [0, \frac{1}{9}] \cup [\frac{2}{9}, \frac{1}{3}] \cup [\frac{2}{3}, \frac{7}{9}] \cup [\frac{8}{9}, 1]$. Continue this process inductively, with $C_n$ being the set obtained from $C_{n-1}$ by deleting the open middle third of each of the intervals in $C_{n-1}$.


Then the Cantor set $C$ is defined as $C := \bigcap_{n \in \mathbb{N}} C_n$.

(a) Show that $C \neq \emptyset$.

(b) Show that $C$ is uncountable.

(c) Show that $C$ is closed, and conclude from this that $C$ is compact.

(d) A subset $A$ of a topological space $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is called perfect if for every $x \in A$ and every open set $U$ containing $x$, $(U \cap A) \setminus \{x\} \neq \emptyset$. Show that $C$ is perfect.

(e) Show that $\operatorname{int}(C) = \emptyset$.

(f) Show that the outer measure of $C$ is zero.

(g) Show that the Cantor set consists precisely of those elements of $[0, 1]$ that have a ternary expansion containing no 1s. 
(Note that a number can have more than one decimal expansion in base 3, since for example the real number $\frac{1}{3}$—which is in $C$—has the two expansions $0.1_3$ and $0.0222\dots_3$ in base 3. So another way to phrase this question is: Show that $[0, 1] \setminus C$ is the collection of real numbers in $[0, 1]$ all of whose base 3 expansions contain a 1.)


After you have done these exercises, take a moment to think about these results together and convince yourself that C is weird. It is not unusual to satisfy any one of these properties; we know lots of uncountable subsets of the reals, lots of compact subsets of the reals, we know Q is perfect, and we know lots of sets with empty interiors. It is weird that C has all of these properties simultaneously. We will explore the Cantor set a little more after we study connectedness.
 
   
# 11.

Let $X := \{0, 1\}^\mathbb{N}$ with the product topology induced by the discrete topology in each factor.
Show that $X$ is compact directly (i.e., without using Tychonoff’s theorem) by showing that $X$ is homeomorphic to the Cantor set.

Hint: By the last part of the previous exercise, every element $a$ of $C$ can be written as
$$a = \sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{a_n}{3^n},$$
for some sequence $\{a_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ of 0s and 2s.

# 12.

The previous result, that $\{0, 1\}^\mathbb{N}$ is homeomorphic to the Cantor set, is a very important one in topology. The Cantor set $C$ (which from this point onwards we will think of interchangeably as both $\{0, 1\}^\mathbb{N}$ and as the subset of the reals we constructed earlier) turns out to contain all the information of a great number of topological spaces.

(a) Show that $C$ is homeomorphic to $C^\mathbb{N}$ (with the product topology).

(b) Prove that $[0, 1]$ is a continuous image of $C$.
Hint: Consider the map $f: C \to [0, 1]$ defined by $\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{a_n}{3^n} \mapsto \sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{a_n}{2^{n+1}}$, where $a_n \in \{0, 2\}$.

(c) Conclude that $H := [0, 1]^\mathbb{N}$ is a continuous image of $C$.

(d) Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be any compact metrizable topological space. Show that $X$ is homeomorphic to a subset of $H$.
Hint: Let $D = \{ x_n : n \in \mathbb{N} \}$ be a countable dense subset of $X$. Let $d$ be a metric on $X$ bounded by 1. Define $F : X \to H$ by $F(x) = (d(x, x_1), d(x, x_2), d(x, x_3), \dots)$. Show that $F$ is a continuous injection.

(e) Conclude that **every compact metrizable space is a continuous image of the Cantor set**.This is a very powerful result. By now I hope you are convinced that the Cantor set is very importan

# 13.

Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ and $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ be topological spaces, and let $f : X \to Y$ be a closed, surjective, continuous function such that for every $y \in Y$, $f^{-1}(\{y\})$ is a compact subset of $X$. Such a map is called a perfect map.

(a) Show that if $X$ is Hausdorff, then $Y$ is Hausdorff.

(b) Show that if $X$ is second countable, then $Y$ is second countable.

(c) Show that if $Y$ is compact, then $X$ is compact.

(d) Show that perfect maps are “rigid” in the sense that they cannot be extended continuously to closures: Let $X$ be Hausdorff and $f : X \to Y$ be a perfect map. Suppose $Z$ is a Hausdorff space that contains $X$ as a dense proper subspace. Show that there is no continuous function $F : Z \to Y$ such that $F(x) = f(x)$ for all $x \in X$.
(Hint: Do a proof by contradiction.)

# 14.

Let $(X, d)$ be a metric space which is compact as a topological space with its metric topology, and let $f : X \to \mathbb{R}_{usual}$ be a continuous function. Show that $f$ is uniformly continuous.

# 15.

This exercise defines a condition on topological spaces that is of particular interest to algebraic geometers. As you will see, this property is much stronger than compactness.

**Definition 16.1.** A topological space $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is called Noetherian if every ascending chain of open sets stabilizes. That is, if $U_1 \subseteq U_2 \subseteq U_3 \subseteq \cdots$ is an ascending sequence of open sets, then there is an $N \in \mathbb{N}$ such that $U_n = U_m$ for all $n, m > N$.

(a) Show that the property of being Noetherian is hereditary.

(b) Show that every Noetherian space is compact.
    Hint: Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be Noetherian and let $\mathcal{U}$ be an open cover of $X$. Consider the collection $\mathcal{A}$ of all finite unions of elements of $\mathcal{U}$. Apply Zorn’s Lemma to $\mathcal{A}$, and show that the maximal element is $X$.

(c) Conclude from the previous two exercises that every Noetherian space is hereditarily compact.

(d) Show a topological space is Hausdorff and hereditarily compact if and only if it is finite and discrete.
The property of being hereditarily compact is very strong, and can be counterintuitive. Every open subset of a hereditarily compact space is compact, for example. The following exercise should give you some impression of how strong it is.

(e) Show that any Hausdorff Noetherian space is finite and discrete.

# 16.

This is for the student interested in category theory. These exercises are not particularly difficult, but they are enough outside the scope of this course (and notationally heavy enough) that no one should feel obligated to do them. Still, they are pretty cool.

Let $\{ (X_n, \mathcal{T}_n) : n \in \mathbb{N} \}$ be a collection of topological spaces, and assume that for each $n > 1$, $f_n : X_n \to X_{n-1}$ is a continuous function. The sequence
$$X_1 \stackrel{f_2}{\leftarrow} X_2 \stackrel{f_3}{\leftarrow} X_3 \stackrel{f_4}{\leftarrow} \cdots ,$$
is called an inverse system of topological spaces, which we denote by $\langle (X_n, \mathcal{T}_n), f_n \rangle$, or simply $\langle X_n, f_n \rangle$ if the topologies on each space are clear .(In general, an inverse system is defined on a directed set rather than the naturals; we are examining a simpler special case in this problem.)

In this context, the sequence above is a generalization of a sequence $X_1 \supseteq X_2 \supseteq X_3 \supseteq \cdots$ of nested spaces (each space would have its subspace topology from the topology on $X_1$, and the maps would be inclusions).

We define the inverse limit of this sequence, denoted by $\varprojlim X_n$, as the set:
$$\varprojlim X_n := \left\{ \{x_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}} \in \prod_{n \in \mathbb{N}} X_n : f_n(x_n) = x_{n-1} \text{ for all } n > 1 \right\}$$
(which is a topological space with its subspace topology inherited from the product topology on $\prod_{n \in \mathbb{N}} X_n$).

(a) Prove that if $\langle X_n, f_n \rangle$ is a nested sequence, meaning $X_1 \supseteq X_2 \supseteq X_3 \supseteq \cdots$, and $f_n : X_n \to X_{n-1}$ is the natural inclusion map for every $n > 1$, then $\varprojlim X_n$ is homeomorphic to $\bigcap_{n \in \mathbb{N}} X_n$ (with its subspace topology inherited from $\mathcal{T}_1$).

(b) Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space, and let $\langle X_n, f_n \rangle$ be the constant inverse system, where $X_n = X$ and $f_n = \text{id}_X$ for all $n$. Show that $\varprojlim X_n \cong X$.

(b) Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space, and let $\langle X_n, f_n \rangle$ be the constant inverse system, where $X_n = X$ and $f_n = \text{id}_X$ for all $n$. Show that $\varprojlim X_n \cong X$.

(c) If $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ is a topological space and $g_n : Y \to X_n$ is a continuous function with the property that $g_{n-1} = f_n \circ g_n$ for all $n > 1$, then there exists a unique continuous function $u : Y \to \varprojlim X_n$ such that $g_n = \pi_n \circ u$ (where $\pi_n$ is the usual projection function, restricted to $\varprojlim X_n \subseteq \prod_{n \in \mathbb{N}} X_n$).
Prove this. Then try to interpret this property in the context of specific inverse systems of topological spaces. For example, in the context of part (a), this says that $A \subseteq \bigcap_{n \in \mathbb{N}} X_n$ if and only if $A \subseteq X_n$ for all $n$.
This universal property actually characterizes the inverse limit. A category theorist would most likely take this as a definition of the inverse limit, then carry out the construction we did above as a proof that such objects exist and are unique in the category of topological spaces

(d) Prove that if $\langle X_n, f_n \rangle$ is an inverse system of nonempty compact Hausdorff spaces, then $\varprojlim X_n$ is a nonempty compact Hausdorff space.

(e) For each $n \in \mathbb{N}$, define a basis $\mathcal{B}_n$ on $\mathbb{N}$ by $\mathcal{B}_n = \{ \{1\}, \{2\}, \dots, \{n\}, \{n+1, n+2, \dots \} \}$. Let $\mathcal{T}_n$ be the topology it generates.

i.Show that $(\mathbb{N}, \mathcal{T}_n)$ is compact but not Hausdorff for every $n$.
ii. Show that the identity map $\text{id} : \mathbb{N} \to \mathbb{N}$ given by $\text{id}(x) = x$ is continuous when viewed as a map from $(\mathbb{N}, \mathcal{T}_n)$ to $(\mathbb{N}, \mathcal{T}_{n-1})$ for all $n > 2$.
    
iii. The previous exercise shows us that $\langle (\mathbb{N}, \mathcal{T}_n), \text{id} \rangle$ is an inverse system. Let $(X, \mathcal{T}) = \varprojlim (\mathbb{N}, \mathcal{T}_n)$ be its inverse limit. What is it?

iv. Conclude that an inverse limit of compact non-Hausdorff spaces need not be compact.

(f) If you have two inverse systems $\langle X_n, f_n \rangle$ and $\langle Y_n, g_n \rangle$, and continuous functions $\phi_n : X_n \to Y_n$ for every $n$ such that
$$\phi_{n-1} \circ f_n = g_n \circ \phi_n \quad (*)$$
for all $n > 1$, then there is a continuous function $\varprojlim X_n \to \varprojlim Y_n$. The condition $(*)$ can be visualized by the commutative diagram:








 

The statement $\phi_{n-1} \circ f_n = g_n \circ \phi_n$ above amounts to saying that this diagram commutes, meaning that if you start at a point and go to another point along two different paths of arrows, the resulting compositions of arrows are equal.
So, we say that a function $\Phi = (\phi_n)_{n \in \mathbb{N}} : \langle X_n, f_n \rangle \to \langle Y_n, g_n \rangle$ is continuous provided the functions $\phi_n$ are continuous for all $n$, and that they obey the condition outlined above. Finally, we define an induced function $\phi : \varprojlim X_n \to \varprojlim Y_n$ by
$$\phi(\{x_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}) = \{\phi_n(x_n)\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$$
Prove that this map $\phi$ is well defined, in the sense that it actually maps into $\varprojlim Y_n$.

(g) Prove that if Φ is continuous, then ϕ is continuous.

(h) If you are still interested in learning more about this, talk to me. There is a lot of room to generalize these definitions to get very powerful tools. For example, in this discussion we only mentioned inverse systems indexed by N, when in fact we can create a similar object indexed by any directed set (recall that definition from my supplementary notes on nets and filters). This allows us to prove some nice results, like that every topological spaces is an inverse limit of spaces whose topologies are finite. 56 There are also direct limits, which are like inverse limits except all the arrows go the other way. 
Direct limits are generalizations of unions the same way inverse limits are generalizations of intersections. While this all looks complicated, inverse and direct limits are a very basic tool for a lot of higher mathematics. They can be defined in any category, and not just for topological spaces.

PS: Diagrams are a great way of looking at certain relationships. For example, the universal property of inverse limits described in part (c) is more readily illustrated by saying that following diagram commutes for all n > 1.





