# 1.

Prove that local compactness is a topological invariant. 

# 2.

 Prove that a locally compact Hausdorff space is regular.
 

# 3.

 Show that any open or closed subspace of a locally compact Hausdorff space is locally compact. Hint: For the open part, use the previous exercise.

  
# 4.

 Show that local compactness is finitely productive.
 
# 5.

Generalizing the previous exercise, show that if $\mathcal{X} = \{ (X_\alpha, \mathcal{T}_\alpha) : \alpha \in I \}$ is a collection of topological spaces, then $X = \prod_{\alpha \in I} X_\alpha$ is locally compact if and only if each $(X_\alpha, \mathcal{T}_\alpha)$ is locally compact and all but finitely many of them are compact.

# 6.

Describe (geometrically, if possible) the one point compactifications of the following topological spaces.
(a) $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus \{\text{one point}\}$, as a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^2_{usual}$.
(b) $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus \{\text{finitely many points}\}$, as a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^2_{usual}$.
(c) Countably many mutually disjoint open balls in $\mathbb{R}^2_{usual}$.
(d) The set $\mathbb{R}^2$, with its order topology induced by the lexicographical order.
(e) $\mathbb{R}_{discrete}$.
(f) The space $L$ given in Example 5.3.4 of the lecture notes on Connectedness.

# 7.

Determine whether the following topological spaces are locally compact.
(a) $\mathbb{R}^\mathbb{N}_{box}$
(b) $[0, 1]^\mathbb{N}$ with its box topology.
(c) $\mathbb{R}^\mathbb{N}_{prod}$
(d) $[0, 1]^\mathbb{N}$ with its product topology.
(e) $(\mathbb{R}, \mathcal{T}_7)$.
(f) $\mathbb{R}_{ray}$.
(g) The set of irrational numbers, as a subspace of $\mathbb{R}_{usual}$.
(h) $\{(x, y) \in \mathbb{R}^2 : y > 0 \} \cup \{(0, 0)\}$, as a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^2_{usual}$.
(i) $\mathbb{R}_{co-countable}$.

# 8.

Prove that $\mathbb{R}_{Sorgenfrey}$ is not locally compact.
Hint: First show that every compact subset of $\mathbb{R}_{Sorgenfrey}$ is countable, and then the result about local compactness follows easily.

# 9.

In this exercise you are going to prove Proposition 6.1 from the lecture notes on compactifications, about the **Stone-Čech compactification** of $(\mathbb{N}, \mathcal{T}_{discrete})$. Recall that we define $\beta \mathbb{N}$ to be the set of all ultrafilters on $\mathbb{N}$, and give it the topology generated by the basis $\mathcal{B} = \{ B_A : A \subseteq \mathbb{N} \}$, where
$$B_A := \{ \mathcal{U} \in \beta \mathbb{N} : A \in \mathcal{U} \} .$$
Define $i : \mathbb{N} \to \beta \mathbb{N}$ by $i(n) = \mathcal{U}_n$, where $\mathcal{U}_n = \{ A \subseteq \mathbb{N} : n \in A \}$ is the principal ultrafilter at $n$. You will show that $\beta \mathbb{N}$ along with the map $i$ forms the **Stone-Čech compactification** $\check{c}(\mathbb{N})$ of the naturals.

(a) First, prove the following elementary facts about the basic open sets in $\mathcal{B}$.
    i. $B_\emptyset = \emptyset$.
    ii. If $A_1 \subseteq A_2$, then $B_{A_1} \subseteq B_{A_2}$.
    iii. For all $A_1, A_2 \subseteq \mathbb{N}$, we have $B_{A_1} \cup B_{A_2} = B_{A_1 \cup A_2}$ and $B_{A_1} \cap B_{A_2} = B_{A_1 \cap A_2}$.
    iv. For all $A \subseteq \mathbb{N}$, we have $B_{\mathbb{N} \setminus A} = \beta \mathbb{N} \setminus B_A$. (In particular, every basic open set is closed.)
    v. If $A_1 \neq A_2$, then $B_{A_1} \neq B_{A_2}$.

(b) Prove that $\mathcal{B}$ is actually a basis on $\beta \mathbb{N}$.

(c) Having now described the topology on $\beta \mathbb{N}$, prove that this space is actually the **Stone-Čech compactification** $\check{c}(\mathbb{N})$ of the naturals. To do this you must show the following:
    i. $i : \mathbb{N} \to \beta \mathbb{N}$ is an embedding.
    ii. $i(\mathbb{N})$ is a dense subset of $\beta \mathbb{N}$.
    iii. $\beta \mathbb{N}$ is a compact **Hausdorff space**.
    iv. $\beta \mathbb{N}$ has the universal property that characterizes the **Stone-Čech compactification.**

  Here are some hints for each part.
    i. First show that $i$ is injective. Then show that $i(\mathbb{N})$ is a discrete subspace of $\beta \mathbb{N}$.
    ii. Show that every nonempty basic open set in $\mathcal{B}$ contains a principal ultrafilter.
    iii. For **Hausdorffness**: Suppose $\mathcal{U} \neq \mathcal{V} \in \beta \mathbb{N}$. Then there must be some $A \subseteq \mathbb{N}$ such that $A \in \mathcal{U}$ but $A \notin \mathcal{V}$. But then $\mathbb{N} \setminus A \in \mathcal{V}$ since $\mathcal{V}$ is an ultrafilter. Then $B_A$ is an open set   containing $\mathcal{U}$, and $B_{\mathbb{N} \setminus A}$ is an open set containing $\mathcal{V}$. Since $A \cap (\mathbb{N} \setminus A) = \emptyset$, we have $B_A \cap B_{\mathbb{N} \setminus A} = B_{A \cap (\mathbb{N} \setminus A)} = B_\emptyset = \emptyset$. Thus, $\beta \mathbb{N}$ is **Hausdorff**. 
       For compactness, let $\mathcal{C} = \{ B_{A_\alpha} : \alpha \in I \}$ be a collection of basic **clopen sets** with the finite intersection property (FIP). By (iv) in part (a), the complements of basic open sets are also basic open sets, so the basic closed sets are precisely the basic open sets. The FIP of $\mathcal{C}$ implies that for any finite subcollection $\{ B_{A_{\alpha_1}}, \dots, B_{A_{\alpha_n}} \} \subseteq \mathcal{C}$, we have $B_{A_{\alpha_1}} \cap \cdots \cap B_{A_{\alpha_n}} = B_{A_{\alpha_1} \cap \cdots \cap A_{\alpha_n}} \neq \emptyset$. This implies that the collection of sets $\{ A_\alpha : \alpha \in I \} \subseteq \mathcal{P}(\mathbb{N})$ has the FIP. Consider the filter $\mathcal{F}$ on $\mathbb{N}$ generated by this collection. Since every filter is contained in an ultrafilter $\mathcal{U}$ on $\mathbb{N}$, we have $A_\alpha \in \mathcal{U}$ for all $\alpha \in I$. This means that $\mathcal{U} \in B_{A_\alpha}$ for all $\alpha \in I$, so $\mathcal{U} \in \bigcap_{\alpha \in I} B_{A_\alpha}$. Therefore, $\bigcap \mathcal{C} \neq \emptyset$, and $\beta \mathbb{N}$ is compact.
       iv. Fix an embedding $f : \mathbb{N} \to Z$, where $Z$ is a compact **Hausdorff space**. We want to show  that there is a unique continuous function $\beta f : \beta \mathbb{N} \to Z$ such that $f = \beta f \circ i$.
        For $\mathcal{U} \in \beta \mathbb{N}$, recall that the collection
$$f_*(\mathcal{U}) := \{ B \subseteq Z : f^{-1}(B) \in \mathcal{U} \}$$
        is an ultrafilter on $Z$. Since $Z$ is compact and **Hausdorff**, $f_*(\mathcal{U})$ converges to a unique point, which we will call $z_{\mathcal{U}}$. Define $\beta f : \beta \mathbb{N} \to Z$ by $\beta f(\mathcal{U}) = z_{\mathcal{U}}$. Convince yourself that this map is well-defined and satisfies the relationship $f = \beta f \circ i$.
        Then prove that $\beta f$ is continuous. This is a bit tedious, but straightforward. You will need to note at some point that $Z$ is regular, and you will need the definition of filter convergence.



