# 1.
 Let $f : \mathbb{R}^n \to \mathbb{R}^k$ be continuous in the first-/second-year calculus sense. That is, for every $a \in \mathbb{R}^n$ and for every $\epsilon > 0$ there is a $\delta > 0$ such that $x \in B_\delta(a) \subseteq \mathbb{R}^n$ implies $f(x) \in B_\epsilon(f(a)) \subseteq \mathbb{R}^k$. Show that $f$ is continuous in the topological sense we have defined.

  

# 2.
Let $X$ be a set and let $\mathcal{T}_1$ and $\mathcal{T}_2$ be two topologies on $X$. Show that the identity function $\text{id} : (X, \mathcal{T}_1) \to (X, \mathcal{T}_2)$ given by $\text{id}(x) = x$ is continuous if and only if $\mathcal{T}_1$ refines $\mathcal{T}_2$.

  

# 3.
Show that addition and multiplication, thought of as functions from $\mathbb{R}^2$ to $\mathbb{R}$ with their usual topologies, are continuous functions. (That is, show that the map $+ : \mathbb{R}^2 \to \mathbb{R}$ given by $(x, y) \mapsto x + y$ is continuous). For this problem it will be useful to use one of the equivalent definitions of continuity given in the lecture notes.

  

# 4.
Give an example of a function $f : \mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{R}$ that is continuous when the domain and codomain both have the usual topology, but not continuous when they both have the ray topology or the Sorgenfrey/lower limit topology.

  

# 5.
Prove that all the properties in Proposition 6.2 in the lecture notes on continuous functions are indeed topological invariants.

  

# 6.
Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ and $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ be topological spaces, let $D \subseteq X$ be dense in $X$, and suppose $f : X \to Y$ is continuous and surjective. Show that $f(D) = \{ f(d) \in Y : d \in D \}$ is dense in $Y$. Conclude that a surjective, continuous image of a separable space is separable.

  

# 7.
Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ and $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ be topological spaces, and suppose that $f : X \to Y$ is a bijection. Show that the following are equivalent:

    (a) $f^{-1}$ is continuous.

    (b) $f$ is open.

    (c) $f$ is closed.
    
  (The equivalence between (b) and (c) is Proposition 4.3 in the lecture notes on continuous functions. Again, these proofs should be immediate from the definitions and some elementary properties of functions and sets. If you find yourself having to get creative, you are overthinking.)
  
  8.  Characterize the continuous functions from $\mathbb{R}_{co-countable}$ to $\mathbb{R}_{usual}$, and from $(\mathbb{R}, \mathcal{T}_7)$ to $\mathbb{R}_{usual}$ (recall that $\mathcal{T}_7$ is the particular point topology at 7).

  

# 9.
Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ and $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ be topological spaces and let $f : X \to Y$.

    (a) Suppose $f$ is continuous, and $\{x_n\}_{n=1}^\infty$ is a sequence in $X$ converging to a point $x$. Show that $\{f(x_n)\}_{n=1}^\infty$ converges to $f(x)$.

    (b) Suppose $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is first countable, and suppose for each $x \in X$ and each sequence $\{x_n\}_{n=1}^\infty$ that converges to $x$, $\{f(x_n)\}_{n=1}^\infty$ converges to $f(x)$. Show that $f$ is continuous.

  

# 10.
Let $f : \mathbb{R}_{usual} \to \mathbb{R}_{usual}$ be continuous. Let $g : \mathbb{R}_{usual} \to \mathbb{R}^2_{usual}$ be defined by $g(x) = (x, f(x))$. Show that $g$ is continuous.

  

# 11.
Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space and let $f, g : X \to \mathbb{R}_{usual}$ be continuous functions. Prove that $f + g$ (i.e., $(f + g)(x) = f(x) + g(x)$) is continuous. Do the same for $f(x)g(x)$.

  

# 12.
Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space, and let $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ be a Hausdorff topological space. Let $A \subseteq X$ be a nonempty subset. Suppose $f, g : X \to Y$ are continuous functions that agree on all points of $A$ (i.e., $f(a) = g(a)$ for all $a \in A$). Show that they must agree on all points of $\overline{A}$.

    Conclude that $A_{f,g} := \{ x \in X : f(x) = g(x) \}$ is closed.

    Also conclude that if $f, g : X \to Y$ are continuous functions, $D \subseteq X$ is dense, $Y$ is Hausdorff, and $f(x) = g(x)$ for all $x \in D$, then $f = g$.

  

# 13.
Show that $\mathbb{R}_{usual}$ and $\mathbb{R}^2_{usual}$ are not homeomorphic.

  

# 14.
Show that $\mathbb{R}^n_{usual}$ is not homeomorphic to $\mathbb{R}^m_{usual}$ for any $n \neq m$ where $n, m > 1$.

At this point in the course I do not expect anyone in the course to be able to solve this problem without substantial creativity. As with some previous problems of this difficulty, I would like you to spend some time think about it. In particular, if you asked someone who cared about vector space structure (we do not care about that in this course) this question, they would say “the two spaces have different dimensions, so they cannot be isomorphic as vector spaces”. This is because “having dimension n” is an invariant property of vector spaces.                                                                        

The natural question is then whether there is a topological notion of dimension. This is an interesting question, because topological spaces are much more interesting than vector spaces (particularly than finite-dimensional vector spaces). There are a few such notions, but defining them is quite tricky. It seems obvious that R n usual should have dimension n, but what about other topologies on the reals? Do Rusual and the Sorgenfrey Line feel they should have the same dimension? What about Rusual and Q? These are hard questions, and should give you some feeling for how much work it takes to define a topological notion of dimension.