# 1.
Show that a topological space $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is regular if and only if for every point $x \in X$ and every open set $U$ containing $x$, there is an open set $V$ such that $x \in V \subseteq \overline{V} \subseteq U$.

  

# 2.
Show that a topological space $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is normal if and only if for every open set $U$ and every closed set $C \subseteq U$, there is an open set $V$ such that $C \subseteq V \subseteq \overline{V} \subseteq U$.

  

# 3.
Prove that regularity is a topological invariant.

  

# 4. 
Prove that regularity is finitely productive.

  

# 5.
Prove that normality is a topological invariant.

  

# 6.
Prove that every closed subspace of a normal topological space is normal.

  

# 7. 
Show that $\mathbb{R}_{Sorgenfrey}$ is normal.

  

# Definition
9.1. **A topological space $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is said to be T2.5 (Urysohn space) if for any two distinct points $x, y \in X$, there are open sets $U$ and $V$ containing $x$ and $y$ respectively such that $\overline{U} \cap \overline{V} = \emptyset$.**

  

9.2. **Two points $x, y \in X$ can be separated by a continuous function if there exists a continuous function $f : X \to [0, 1]$ such that $f(x) = 0$ and $f(y) = 1$.**

Similarly, $x \notin A$ and $A \subseteq X$ can be separated by continuous function if there exists a continuous function $f : X \to [0, 1]$ such that $f(x) = 0$ and $f(a) = 1$ for all $a \in A$.

Two disjoint subsets $A, B \subseteq X$ can be separated by continuous functions if there exists a continuous $f : X \to [0, 1]$ such that $f(x) = 0$ for all $x \in A$ and $f(y) = 1$ for all $y \in B$.

  
9.3.

• $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is completely Hausdorff if every pair distinct points can be separated by a continuous function.

• $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is completely regular if every $x \in X$ and every closed set $C \subseteq X$ not containing $x$ can be separated by a continuous function. $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is T3.5 (Tychonoff space) if it is completely regular and T1.

  

# Theorem 9.4.
(Urysohn’s Lemma). A topological space is normal if and only if every pair of disjoint, nonempty closed sets can be separated by a continuous function.

  

# Definition 9.5.

• Two subsets $A$ and $B$ of $X$ are called separated if $\overline{A} \cap B = A \cap \overline{B} = \emptyset$.

• $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is completely normal if whenever $A$ and $B$ are separated subsets of $X$, then there are disjoint open subsets $U$ and $V$ of $X$ such that $A \subseteq U$ and $B \subseteq V$. A T1 completely normal space is T5.

• $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is perfectly normal if whenever $C$ and $D$ are disjoint, nonempty, closed subsets of $X$, there exists a continuous function $f : X \to [0, 1]$ such that $C = f^{-1}(0)$ and $D = f^{-1}(1)$. A T1 perfectly normal space is T6.

# 8.
Show that every completely regular space is regular.

  

# 9.
Prove that every $T_3$ space is $T_{2.5}$, and that every $T_{2.5}$ space is $T2$.

  

# 10.
Prove that every perfectly normal space is normal, and that every completely normal space is normal.

  

# 11.
Show that all of the properties we just defined are topological invariants.

  

# 12.
Show that every completely Hausdorff space is $T_{2.5}$.

  

# 13.
Show that complete regularity is hereditary, and finitely productive.

  

# 14.
Show that a topological space is completely normal if and only if it is hereditarily normal.

  

# 15. 
Two very useful ways of characterizing perfect normality are given by Theorem 9.6. Using this theorem, show that the property of being perfectly normal is hereditary, and conclude from the previous exercise that every perfectly normal space is completely normal.

  

# 16.
From the previous exercises in this and an earlier section, conclude that

    $T_6 \implies T_5 \implies T_4 \implies T_{3.5} \implies T_3 \implies T_{2.5} \implies T_2 \implies T_1 \implies T_0$

  

# 17.
Prove the equivalence between (a) and (b) of Theorem 9.6.

   Prove that a topological space $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is perfectly normal if and only if it is normal and every closed subset of $X$ is $G_\delta$.

  

# 18.
Construct a topological space to show that $T_2$ $\not\implies$ $T_{2.5}$.(Hint: Try some ideas similar to the Furstenburg topology.)

  It is  also true that $T_{2.5}$ $\not\implies$ $T_3$, though the example is not something anyone could reasonably come up with. Take a look at Example 78 in *Counterexamples in Topology* for more information.

