
# 7.37.
 If $H$ is a subgroup of a group $G$ and if $U$ is a right transversal of $H$ in $G$, then $U^{-1} = \{u^{-1} : u \in U\}$ is a left transversal of $H$ in $G$. Conclude, for $H < G$, that both $U$ and $U^{-1}$ are transversals of $H$ in $G$.
 
 

# 7.38.
Prove that an extension $G$ of $K$ by $Q$ is a semidirect product if and only if there is a transversal $t: Q \to G$ that is a homomorphism.



# 7.39.
(i) Prove that any two semidirect products realizing data $(Q, K, \theta)$ are equivalent.
(ii) Prove that an extension $G$ realizing data $(Q, K, \theta)$ is a semidirect product if and only if it has a factor set $f \in B^2$.



# 7.40.
Let $p$ be an odd prime. Give an example of two extensions $G$ and $G'$ realizing $(K, Q, \theta) = (\mathbb{Z}_p, \mathbb{Z}_p, 0)$ with $G \cong G'$ but with $G$ and $G'$ not equivalent. (Hint. Let $K = \langle a \rangle$ be cyclic of order $p$, and let $G = \langle g \rangle$ and $G' = \langle h \rangle$ be cyclic of order $p^2$. Define $i: K \to G$ by $i(a) = pg$, and define $i': K \to G'$ by $i'(a) = 2ph$. Show that there is no isomorphism $\gamma: G \to G'$ making the diagram commute.)



**Remark.** It is plain that $|H^2(Q, K, \theta)|$ is an upper bound for the number of nonisomorphic extensions $G$ of $K$ by $Q$ realizing $\theta$. This last exercise shows that this bound need not be attained. After all, every extension of $\mathbb{Z}_p$ by $\mathbb{Z}_p$ has order $p^2$, hence is abelian, so that either $G = \mathbb{Z}_{p^2}$ or $G = \mathbb{Z}_p \times \mathbb{Z}_p$; but it can be shown that $|H^2(\mathbb{Z}_p, \mathbb{Z}_p, 0)| = |\text{Ext}(\mathbb{Z}_p, \mathbb{Z}_p)| = p$.