
# 7.45.
 Let $Q$ be a subgroup of finite index $n$ in a group $G$, and let $\{y_1, \dots, y_n\}$ be a right transversal of $Q$ in $G$. For $a \in G$, $y_i a = p_i y_{t(i)}$ for $p_i \in Q$ and $t \in S_n$. Prove that $R: G \to Q/Q'$, defined by $R(a) = \prod_{i=1}^n p_i Q'$, is the transfer; that is, $R(a) = V(a)$ for all $a \in G$. (Hint. Exercise 7.37.)


# 7.46.
(i) Let $p_1 < p_2 < \dots < p_r$ be primes and let $n = p_1 \cdots p_r$. Prove that every group $G$ of order $n$ has a normal Sylow $p_r$-subgroup. (Hint. Exercise 4.38.)
(ii) If, in addition, $(p_i, p_j - 1) = 1$ for all $i < j$, then $G$ must be cyclic. (One can characterize such integers $n$ by $(n, \phi(n)) = 1$, where $\phi$ is the Euler $\phi$-function.)
(iii) Find all integers $n$ such that every group $G$ of order $n$ is abelian.



**Remark.** We sketch a proof that there exist arbitrarily large sets of primes $\{p_1, \dots, p_r\}$ which satisfy condition (ii) of Exercise 7.46. Let $p_1 = 3$, and suppose that $p_1 < p_2 < \dots < p_r$ are primes with $(p_i, p_j - 1) = 1$ for all $i < j$. A theorem of Dirichlet states: If $(a, b) = 1$, then the arithmetic progression $a, a + b, a + 2b, \dots$ contains infinitely many primes. Since $(2, p_1 \cdots p_r) = 1$, there is a positive integer $m$ such that $p_{r+1} = 2 + m p_1 \cdots p_r$ is prime. The set $\{p_1, \dots, p_{r+1}\}$ satisfies all the desired conditions.



# 7.47.
 (i) Let $q$ and $p$ be primes such that $q \equiv 1 \pmod{p^e}$. Show that the multiplicative group $\mathbb{Z}_q^\times$ contains a cyclic subgroup isomorphic to $\mathbb{Z}_{p^e}$. (Hint: Theorem 2.18.)
(ii) Let $G = C_1 \times \dots \times C_n$, where $C_i$ is cyclic of order $p_i^{e_i}$ for (not necessarily distinct) primes $p_i$. Use Dirichlet's theorem (see the remark following Exercise 7.46) to show that there are $n$ distinct primes $q_j$ with $q_j \equiv 1 \pmod{p_j^{e_j}}$ for $j = 1, \dots, n$.
(iii) If $G$ is a finite abelian group, then $G$ can be imbedded in $\mathbb{Z}_m^\times$ for some $m$. (Hint. Let $m = \prod q_j$ and use Theorem 7.3(iii).) (This proof is due to G. McCormick.)



# 7.48.
 (i) If $V: G \to Q/Q'$ is the transfer, then $G' \le \ker V$ and $V$ induces a homomorphism $\bar{V}: G/G' \to Q/Q'$, namely, $G'a \mapsto V(a)$.
(ii) Prove that the transfer is transitive: if $P \le Q \le G$ are subgroups of finite index, and if $T: G \to Q/Q'$, $U: G \to P/P'$, and $V: Q \to P/P'$ are transfers, then $\bar{U} = \bar{V}\bar{T}$.



# 7.49.
 If $Q$ has index $n$ in $G$, and if $K \triangleleft G$ satisfies $G = KQ$ and $Q \le C_G(K)$, then $V(a) = a^n Q'$ for all $a \in K$. (Hint. There is a transversal of $Q$ contained in $K$; if $a \in K$ and $g \in K$, then $g^{-1}a^g \in Q \le C_G(K)$, and this implies $a^g \in C_G(K)g^{-1} = C_G(gKg^{-1}) = C_G(K)$.)



# 7.50.
 If $G$ is a finite group of order $mn$, where $(m, n) = 1$, and if $Q \le Z(G)$ is a Hall subgroup of order $m$, then $K = \ker V$ is a normal complement of $Q$ (where $V: G \to Q/Q'$ is the transfer), and $G = K \times Q$.



# 7.51.
Let $G$ be a torsion-free group having a cyclic subgroup of finite index. Prove that $G$ is cyclic.



# 7.52.
 If $p$ and $q$ are primes, prove that every group of order $p^2q^2$ is solvable.
 
 

# 7.53.
 If $G$ is a nonabelian group with $|G| \le 100$ and $|G| \neq 60$, then $G$ is not simple. (See Exercise 4.36.) (The next order of a nonabelian simple group is 168.)