# 1.
 Consider the following two ways of defining a topology on on any subset of $\mathbb{R}$. If $X \subseteq \mathbb{R}$, we can give $X$ its subspace topology inherited from $\mathbb{R}_{usual}$, which we will call $\mathcal{T}^R_X$, or we can give it the order topology (since $(X, \le)$ is a linear order), which we will call $\mathcal{T}^O_X$.

   Give an example of a set $X \subseteq \mathbb{R}$ such that $(X, \mathcal{T}^R_X) \cong (X, \mathcal{T}^O_X)$, and another example such that $(X, \mathcal{T}^R_X) \not\cong (X, \mathcal{T}^O_X)$. Be sure to prove your claims as explicitly as possible.

  

# 2.
Let $(L, \le)$ be a linear order. A subset $X \subseteq L$ is called convex if for every $x < y \in X$, we have $(x, y) \subseteq X$ (where this interval is always defined in $L$).

   (a) Give an example of a convex and a non-convex subset of $\mathbb{R}$.

   (b) Give an example of a convex and a non-convex subset of $\mathbb{Q}$.

   (c) Show that the intersection of two convex sets is convex.

   (d) Is the union of two convex sets convex?

   (e) Show that if $X \subseteq L$ is convex, then its subspace topology inherited from the order topology on $L$ is equal to the order topology on $X$ when seen as a linear order on its own.

  

# 3.
Let $(W, \le)$ be a well-order, and let $S \subseteq W$ be non-empty. Show that $S$ has a unique least element.

  

# 4.
Let $(W, \le)$ be an infinite well-order. Show that there is a “copy” of the well-order $\mathbb{N}$ at the “bottom” of $W$.

  

# 5.
Let $(W, \le)$ be a linear order. Show that it is a well-order if and only if it contains no infinite, decreasing chains.

  

# 6.
Show that a subset of $\omega_1$ is countable if and only if it is bounded.

  

# 7.
Let $m = \min(\omega_1)$. Show that $\{m\}$ is clopen in $\omega_1$.

  

# 8.
Show that $\omega_1$ is not discrete.

  

# 9.
Key fact. Let $\{\alpha_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ be a sequence of elements of $\omega_1$. Show that there is an $\alpha \in \omega_1$ such that $\bigcup_{n \in \mathbb{N}} \text{pred}(\alpha_n) = \text{pred}(\alpha)$.
   
   (This is a property of ω1 as a well-order, not as a topological space.) This property is a stronger way of saying that every countable subset of ω1 is bounded above. It plays a key role in many proofs about ω1).

# 10.
Using the same notation as the previous problem, show that any increasing sequence $\{\alpha_n\}$ converges to $\alpha$.

  

# 11.
Let $X = [0, 1] \times [0, 1]$ be the unit square, and let $\prec$ be the lexicographical order on $X$ induced from the usual linear order on both copies of $[0, 1]$. That is, for $(x_1, y_1)$ and $(x_2, y_2)$ in $X$, define

    $$(x_1, y_1) \prec (x_2, y_2) \text{ if and only if } x_1 < x_2 \text{ or both } x_1 = x_2 \text{ and } y_1 \le y_2.$$

   Let $\mathcal{T}$ be the order topology defined by $\prec$. Consider the following questions about the $(X, \mathcal{T})$.

   (a) For any $a \in [0, 1]$, show that any “vertical slice” of the form $V_a = \{ (a, y) \in X : y \in [0, 1] \}$ is not open.

   (b) Is this space second countable? First countable?

   (c) Is this space separable or ccc?

  

# 12.
(a) Let $(W, \le)$ be a linear order, and let $f : [0, 1] \to W$ be a continuous function (where $[0, 1]$ has its usual topology and $W$ has its order topology). Show that the range of $f$ is convex.

   (b) Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be the space from the previous exercise (the lexicographical order on the unit square). Suppose that $f : [0, 1] \to X$ is continuous, $f(0) = (0, 0)$, and $f(1) = (1, 1)$.

   Show that $f$ is surjective.

   (c) Show that there are no functions with the properties described in part (b).

  

# 13.
Let $(W, \le)$ be a well-order. Suppose $S \subseteq W$ has the following two properties:

   (a) $\min(W) \in S$.

   (b) If $y \in W$ is such that $x \in S$ for all $x < y$, then $y \in S$.

   Show that $S = W$.
    
    
# 14.
Show that no subspace of $\mathbb{R}_{usual}$ is homeomorphic to $\omega_1$.

  

# 15.
Show that no subspace of $\omega_1$ is homeomorphic to $\mathbb{Q}$ (with its subspace topology from $\mathbb{R}_{usual}$).
  (Hint: You will have to make up your own topological invariant, but you can do it with some quite simple ones.)

  

# 16.
Suppose that $\{\alpha_n\}$ and $\{\beta_n\}$ are sequences in $\omega_1$ with the property that for each $n$, $\alpha_n \le \beta_n \le \alpha_{n+1}$. Show that $\lim \alpha_n = \lim \beta_n$.

  

# 17.
Let $A, B \subseteq \omega_1$ be disjoint, closed sets. Show that one of $A$ or $B$ must be countable.
 (Hint: Use the result of the previous exercise.)

  

# 18.
An element $\alpha \in \omega_1$ is called a successor if $\text{pred}(\alpha)$ has a maximal element((maximal in the sense of the order on $\omega_1$) .If $\alpha$ is not a successor and $\text{pred}(\alpha) \neq \emptyset$, $\alpha$ is called a limit.(These names come from the set theoretic definition of $\omega_1$.)

   Show that $\alpha$ is a successor if and only if $\{\alpha\}$ is open.

  

# 19.
Show that in the space $\omega_1 + 1$, the set $\{\Omega\}$ is closed but not $G_\delta$. Conclude that $\omega_1 + 1$ is not perfectly normal.(Recall that a subset of a topological space is called a $G_\delta$ set if it is equal to a countable intersection of open sets.) Conclude, using the result of an exercise from the previous section, that $\omega_1 + 1$ is not perfectly normal.

  

# 20.
Show that every continuous function $f : \omega_1 \to \mathbb{R}$ is eventually constant. That is, there is an $\alpha \in \omega_1$ and an $x \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $f(\beta) = x$ for all $\alpha < \beta \in \omega_1$
 This is a lovely fact. There are two ways of approaching this that I know. The “cleaner” proof goes through a very important set theoretical fact called The Pressing Down Lemma, which you are encouraged to look up. Feel free to talk to me about it. The other approach is more hands-on, and therefore a little trickier, but does not involve any concepts you do not know yet. Here is a nudge in the right direction:
   First, note that it suffices to prove that any continuous function $f : \omega_1 \to (0, 1)$ is eventually constant. So suppose $f$ is a continuous function of this sort, fix $n \in \mathbb{N}$, and divide $[0, 1]$ into closed intervals of length $\frac{1}{2^n}$. Take preimages of these intervals, and apply the fact about disjoint closed subsets of $\omega_1$.
   