# 17.1 Problems related to Tychonoff ’s theorem
# 1.

A collection $\mathcal{A}$ of subsets of a set $X$ is said to have the countable intersection property (CIP) if for every countable subcollection $\mathcal{C} \subseteq \mathcal{A}$, $\bigcap \mathcal{C} \neq \emptyset$. Show that a topological space $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is Lindelöf if and only if every collection of closed subsets of $X$ with the countable intersection property has a nonempty intersection.

# 2.

Let $X$ be a set. A transitive binary relation on $X$ is a subset $R \subseteq X^2 = X \times X$ such that if $(a, b) \in R$ and $(b, c) \in R$, then $(a, c) \in R$. Let $\mathcal{R}$ be the collection of all transitive binary relations on $X$, so $\mathcal{R} \subseteq \mathcal{P}(X^2)$.

Thinking of $\mathcal{P}(X^2)$ as a topological space with the topology defined in BL 14.2.11, show that $\mathcal{R}$ is compact.
Hint: Recall that in defining the topology on $\mathcal{P}(X^2)$, we identify the set with $\{0, 1\}^{X^2}$, which is compact by Tychonoff’s theorem. This space is Hausdorff, and therefore it suffices to show that $\mathcal{R}$ is closed (or equivalently, that its complement is open).

# 3.

Let $X$ be a set. A linear order $\le$ on $X$ is a transitive binary relation on $X$, and so the set $\mathcal{L} \subseteq \mathcal{P}(X^2)$ of all linear orders on $X$ is a subset of the set $\mathcal{R}$ from the previous problem. Show that $\mathcal{L}$ is compact.

# 4.

We already know that the Axiom of Choice implies **Tychonoff’s theorem**, because we used it (in the form of Zorn’s Lemma) in an important way in the proof. In this exercise, you will show that Tychonoff’s theorem implies AC.
Assume Tychonoff’s theorem, and let $\mathcal{A} = \{ A_\alpha : \alpha \in I \}$ be a nonempty collection of nonempty sets. We want to show that there is a choice function on $\mathcal{A}$.
(a) Show that there is a choice function on $\mathcal{A}$ if and only if $\prod_{\alpha \in I} A_\alpha \neq \emptyset$.

(b) Let $\heartsuit$ be a symbol that is not in any of the $A_\alpha$'s. For each $\alpha \in I$, let $\mathcal{T}_\alpha = \{U \in \mathcal{P}(A_\alpha \cup \{\heartsuit\}) : U = \emptyset, U = \{\heartsuit\} \text{ or } (A_\alpha \cup \{\heartsuit\}) \setminus U \text{ is finite} \}$. Convince yourself that $\mathcal{T}_\alpha$ is a topology on $A_\alpha \cup \{\heartsuit\}$.

(c) Prove that $(A_\alpha \cup \{\heartsuit\}, \mathcal{T}_\alpha)$ is a compact topological space for each $\alpha \in I$. Then by Tychonoff’s theorem, $X := \prod_{\alpha \in I} (A_\alpha \cup \{\heartsuit\})$ is compact with its product topology.
(d) Let $\mathcal{C} = \{ \pi_\alpha^{-1}(A_\alpha) : \alpha \in I \}$. Verify that each set in $\mathcal{C}$ is a closed subset of $X$.

(e) Show that $\mathcal{C}$ has the finite intersection property.
Hint: Let $C_1, \dots, C_n$ be elements of $\mathcal{C}$. Then for each $i$, there is an $\alpha_i \in I$ such that $C_i = \pi_{\alpha_i}^{-1}(A_{\alpha_i})$. Define $f \in X$ by:
$$f(\alpha) = \begin{cases} b_i & \alpha = \alpha_i \text{ for some } i = 1, \dots, n \\ \heartsuit & \text{otherwise} \end{cases}$$
where $b_i \in A_{\alpha_i}$ is chosen for each $i$. Show that $f \in C_1 \cap \cdots \cap C_n$.
Morally, in this proof we are trying to choose an element from each $A_\alpha$. We cannot do that without AC, but we can definitely pick the element $\heartsuit$ from each $A_\alpha \cup \{\heartsuit\}$. We put $\heartsuit$ into each of those sets precisely so we can pick it here when necessary, leaving us with only finitely many “non-obvious” choices to make.

(f) Conclude from the previous part that $\bigcap \mathcal{C} \neq \emptyset$. Finally, conclude from this that $\prod_{\alpha \in I} A_\alpha \neq \emptyset$.

# 7.

In this exercise you are going to produce another proof of **Tychonoff’s theorem**, this time using the Well-Ordering Principle rather than Zorn’s Lemma (which you should recall was used in the proof given in the lecture notes to extend a filter to an ultrafilter). This exercise will involve transfinite induction. This is much closer to (but not the same as) the original proof of Tychonoff’s theorem.

(a)  Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ and $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ be topological spaces with $X$ compact, and let $\mathcal{B}$ be the usual basis for the product topology on $X \times Y$. Let $\mathcal{A} \subseteq \mathcal{B}$ be a collection of basic open sets with the property that no finite subcollection of $\mathcal{A}$ covers $X \times Y$. Show that there is an $x \in X$ such that no finite subcollection of $\mathcal{A}$ covers $\{x\} \times Y$.
(This is very similar, and follows from, Lemma 5.2 in the notes on compactness.)


(b) Now, for the remainder of the problem, let $I$ be a nonempty indexing set and let $\mathcal{X} = \{ (X_\alpha, \mathcal{T}_\alpha) : \alpha \in I \}$ be a collection of compact topological spaces. Let $X = \prod_{\alpha \in I} X_\alpha$ be their product, which we want to show is compact with its product topology. Let $\mathcal{B}$ be the usual basis for the product topology. Also, fix a well-ordering $\le$ of $I$ with the property that $(I, \le)$ has a largest element. 
Fix $\beta \in I$, and for each $\gamma < \beta$, fix some $p_\gamma \in X_\gamma$. For each $\alpha < \beta$, define the subset $Y_\alpha \subseteq X$ by:
$$Y_\alpha = \{ x \in X : \pi_\gamma(x) = p_\gamma \text{ for all } \gamma \le \alpha \} .$$
Note that these sets are nested, in the sense that if $\alpha_1 < \alpha_2$, then $Y_{\alpha_1} \supseteq Y_{\alpha_2}$. Finally, let $Z_\beta = \bigcap_{\alpha < \beta} Y_\alpha$.
Show that if $\mathcal{A} \subseteq \mathcal{B}$ is a finite collection of basic open sets that covers $Z_\beta$, then $\mathcal{A}$ also covers $Y_\alpha$ for some $\alpha < \beta$.

Hint: Recall that in a well-order, an element $\beta$ either has an immediate predecessor in the order or it does not. The first case is basically immediate. For the other case, for each $U \in \mathcal{A}$ let $I_U = \{ \alpha < \beta : \pi_\alpha(U) \neq X_\alpha \}$. By definition of the product topology, $\bigcup_{U \in \mathcal{A}} I_U$ is finite. Choose $\alpha = \max \bigcup_{U \in \mathcal{A}} I_U$.


(c) Now, we prove that $X$ is compact by contrapositive. So let $\mathcal{U} \subseteq \mathcal{B}$ be a collection of basic open sets such that no finite subcollection of $\mathcal{U}$ covers $X$, and we will show that $\mathcal{U}$ is not a cover of $X$.

 Show by transfinite induction that one can choose points $p_\alpha \in X_\alpha$ for all $\alpha \in I$ such that for each $\beta \in I$, the set $Y_\beta$ (as defined earlier, with this new choice of $p_\alpha$'s used for all of them) cannot be covered by a finite subcollection of $\mathcal{U}$.

Hint: Base case: If $\beta = \min I$, then we can regard $X$ as $X_\beta \times \prod_{\beta < \alpha \in I} X_\alpha$, and find the point $p_\beta$ using the result of part (a).
Suppose now that we have found the $p_\alpha$'s that work for all $\alpha < \beta$, and we attempt to find $p_\beta$. By the contrapositive of part (b) you can conclude that no finite subcollection of $\mathcal{U}$ covers $Z_\beta$. Then show that you can use part (a) to find $p_\beta$.


(d) Conclude from the previous part that if $\beta = \max I$, then the element $f \in X$ defined by $f(\alpha) = p_\alpha$ is an element of $X$ that is not covered by any finite subcollection from $\mathcal{U}$. Show that this implies $\mathcal{U}$ is not a cover.


This proof provides us with an interesting way to look at Tychonoff’s theorem. We already know that AC, Tychonoff’s theorem, and the Well-Ordering Principle are all equivalent, and this proof allows us to conclude that any product of compact sets indexed by a set that can be well-ordered is compact. This means that that in a world without AC, many large products of compact sets are still compact. For example any product of compact sets indexed by any ordinal is compact


  