# 1.

 Prove Proposition 2.2 from the lecture notes (which provides a number of equivalent definitions of disconnectedness).
 
# 2.

Let $X$ be a set, and let $\mathcal{T}_1$ and $\mathcal{T}_2$ be topologies on $X$ such that $\mathcal{T}_1 \subseteq \mathcal{T}_2$. Does the connectedness of $(X, \mathcal{T}_1)$ imply the connectedness of $(X, \mathcal{T}_2)$? Does the connectedness of $(X, \mathcal{T}_2)$ imply the connectedness of $(X, \mathcal{T}_1)$?

# 3.

Let $D \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2$ be countable. Show that $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus D$ is connected (with its usual subspace topology).
Hint: Show it is path-connected.

# 4.

Let (W, ≤) be a well-order, thought of as a topological space with its order topology. Provided that W has more than one point, show that it is disconnected.

# 5.

Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space, and let $D \subseteq X$ be a connected subset. Show that $\overline{D}$ is connected.
In particular, this implies that a topological space with a dense connected subspace is connected.

# 6.

Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space, and let $\{ A_n : n \in \mathbb{N} \}$ be connected subsets of $X$ with the property that $A_n \cap A_{n+1} \neq \emptyset$ for all $n \in \mathbb{N}$. Show that $\bigcup_{n \in \mathbb{N}} A_n$ is connected.

# 7.

Show that $\mathbb{R}^\mathbb{N}_{box}$ is disconnected. What about $\mathbb{R}^\mathbb{N}_{unif}$?
Hint: For the first question, consider the set of sequences of real numbers that converge to zero in the usual topology, as a subset of $\mathbb{R}^\mathbb{N}$.

# 8.

 Show that path-connectedness is (arbitrarily) productive.

# 9.

 Fill in the details of the proof that the Topologist’s Sine Curve is connected but not path-connected.
  
# 10.

 This is a definition we will return to a few times throughout these exercises:
 
 **Definition 18.1.** A topological space $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is called totally disconnected if its only connected subsets are singletons.

(a) Show that total disconnectedness is a topological invariant.

(b) Show that a topological space $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is totally disconnected if for every pair of distinct points $a, b \in X$ there are disjoint open sets $U, V$ such that $a \in U$, $b \in V$ and $X = U \cup V$.

(c) Show that total disconnectedness is hereditary.

(d) Show that total disconnectedness is (arbitrarily) productive.

(e) Intuitively, total disconnectedness feels a lot like discreteness. Show that any discrete space is totally disconnected, and come up with an example of a non-discrete space that is totally disconnected. (For the latter, you know a few spaces already that satisfy this.)

(f) Show that any zero-dimensional T$_0$ space is totally disconnected. (Recall that a topological space is called zero-dimensional if it admits a basis consisting of clopen sets.)

# 11.

 Here is another useful definition.
 
 **Definition 18.2.** A topological space $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is called locally connected if for every $x \in X$ and every open set $U$ containing $x$, there is an open, connected set $V$ such that $x \in V \subseteq U$. Equivalently, $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is locally connected if it admits a basis of connected sets.

(a) Show that there is no implication relationship between connectedness and local connectedness. Find four topological spaces which are respectively:
    i. Not connected and not locally connected.
    ii. Connected but not locally connected.
    iii. Locally connected but not connected.
    iv. Connected and locally connected.

(b) Show that every discrete space is locally connected.

(c) Show that a continuous image of a locally connected space need not be locally connected.

(d) Show that local connectedness is a topological invariant.

(e) Show with an example that local connectedness is not hereditary.

(f) Give an example of a space that is locally connected but not totally disconnected, and a space that is totally disconnected but not locally connected.

(g) Show that a totally disconnected, locally connected topological space must be discrete.

# 12.

 Recall that if $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is a connected topological space, a point $p \in X$ is called a cut point if $X \setminus \{p\}$ is disconnected.

(a) Prove that homeomorphisms send cut points to cut points.

(b) For $n \in \mathbb{N}$, prove that the property of having $n$ cut points is a topological invariant.

(c) Does $\mathbb{R}_{co-finite}$ have any cut points? What about $\mathbb{R}_{co-countable}$? What about the Topologist’s Sine Curve?

(d) Consider the English capital letters X, P, Y, B, and O as subspaces of $\mathbb{R}^2_{usual}$. Are any of them homeomorphic to one another?

# 13.

  Prove that a connected linear order (L,≤), thought of as a topological space with its order topology, is Dedekind complete and has no gaps. Hint: Prove the contrapositive (which will involve two cases).
  
# 14.
      
 Prove that connectedness is productive.
 Hint: Let $X = \prod_{\alpha \in I} X_\alpha$ be a product of connected spaces. Fix an element $f \in X$, and let $D_f = \{ g \in X : g(\alpha) = f(\alpha) \text{ for all but finitely many } \alpha \in I \}$. Show that $D_f$ is dense in $X$ and connected, and then use an earlier exercise to conclude that $X$ is connected.

# 15.

Show that the Cantor set is totally disconnected. Note that by the result of an exercise in section 16, this implies that a continuous image of a totally disconnected space need not be totally disconnected, since any compact metrizable space is a continuous image of the Cantor set.

# 16.

this exercise, you will show that any compact, Hausdorff, totally disconnected space is zero-dimensional. Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a compact, Hausdorff, totally disconnected topological space.
Fix a point $x \in X$. Let $\mathcal{C} = \{ A \subseteq X : x \in A, \text{ and } A \text{ is clopen} \}$. Then $X \in \mathcal{C}$, so $\mathcal{C} \neq \emptyset$.

(a) Show that $\mathcal{C}$ is closed under finite intersections, and that $P := \bigcap \mathcal{C}$ is a closed set that contains $x$.

(b) Show that for every closed set $F$ that is disjoint from $P$, there is a $C \in \mathcal{C}$ such that $F \cap C = \emptyset$.

# 17.

In this exercise, you are going to prove a powerful characterization theorem about compact, Hausdorff, totally disconnected spaces.
Suppose $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is a compact, Hausdorff, totally disconnected space. By the previous exercise, the space admits a basis $\mathcal{B} = \{ B_\alpha : \alpha \in I \}$ of clopen sets. You are going to show that $X$ is homeomorphic to a subspace of $\{0, 1\}^I$.

Recall that for a subset $A \subseteq X$, the corresponding indicator function $\chi_A : X \to \{0, 1\}$ is the function
$$\chi_A(x) = \begin{cases} 1 & x \in A \\ 0 & x \notin A \end{cases}$$
Define a map $\phi : X \to \{0, 1\}^I$ by $\phi(x)(\alpha) = \chi_{B_\alpha}(x)$. Elements of $\{0, 1\}^I$ are functions $I \to \{0, 1\}$, so $\phi(x)$ is defined by how it acts on each $\alpha \in I$. The way $\phi$ acts is by sending $x$ to a checklist of what elements of $\mathcal{B}$ contain $x$.

(a) Show that $\phi$ is injective.

(b) Prove that for each $B \in \mathcal{B}$, $\chi_B$ is continuous.

(c) Prove that $\phi$ is continuous.

(d) Conclude that $\phi$ is a homeomorphism onto its range.

# 18.

Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space, and let $Y$ be any set. A function $f : X \to Y$ is called locally constant if for every $x \in X$, there is an open set $U_x \subseteq X$ containing $x$ such that $f$ is constant on $U_x$. Prove that a locally constant function with a connected domain is constant.

# 19.

This is a problem about vector bundles. This problem is not very difficult at all, but it is (a) notationally intensive, and (b) somewhat outside the scope of this course. I put it here with three stars for interested students, just so no one feels they have to do this. The biggest challenge with this problem will likely be wrapping your mind around the definition of a vector bundle.

Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space. Let $(E, \mathcal{U}, \pi)$ be a triple such that:
(i) $(E, \mathcal{U})$ is a topological space;
(ii) $\pi : E \to X$ is a continuous surjection; and
(iii) for each $x \in X$, the preimage $\pi^{-1}(x)$ has the structure of a finite-dimensional real vector space.
Such a triple is called a vector bundle on $(X, \mathcal{T})$ if:
For every $x \in X$ there is an open set $U_x \subseteq X$ containing $x$, a non-negative integer $n_x$, and a homeomorphism
$\phi_x : \pi^{-1}(U_x) \to U_x \times \mathbb{R}^{n_x}$
such that the following two properties are satisfied:

(a) The following diagram commutes:







where $\psi_x : U_x \times \mathbb{R}^{n_x} \to U_x$ is the first projection function: $\psi_x(y, v) = y$. (Usually I would call this function $\pi_1$, but $\pi$ is always used for the other map in a vector bundle.) to remind you, the diagram is said to **commute** if
                          $\psi_x \circ \phi_x = \pi|_{\pi^{-1}(U_x)}$.


(b) For each y∈Ux​, the map:

ϕx​∣π−1(y)​:π−1(y)→ψx−1​(y)

is an isomorphism of vector spaces.
Note that ψx−1​(y)={y}×Rnx​, which we regard as a vector space by ignoring the constant first coordinate. Also, π−1(y) has the structure of a finite-dimensional real vector space.


Some intuition for these definitions. First of all, these definitions are usually written without the subscript x on everything. I wanted to include them to stress that all of these things depend on the particular x.
Next, observe that given a fixed integer (we’ll use 7), the set $E = X \times \mathbb{R}^7$, with its product topology and the map $\pi : E \to X$ given by $\pi(x, y) = x$, is trivially a vector bundle because you can choose $U_x = X$, $n_x = 7$ and $\phi_x = \text{id}_E$ for all $x \in X$. This is called the **trivial vector bundle of rank 7** over $(X, \mathcal{T})$.
In general, the map $\phi_x$ is often called a “local trivialization”. So the idea here is that $E$ is a big bundle of vector spaces, one sitting “over” every point in $X$. The existence of $U_x$ and the map $\phi_x$ shows that near $x$, the map $\pi$ looks like a simple projection $U_x \times \mathbb{R}^n \to U_x$ for some $n$, and in turn that near $x$, this collection of vector spaces over points looks like a trivial vector bundle of some fixed rank $n_x$.
One example of a vector bundle you may have seen is the tangent bundle of a smooth manifold. In this case, the topological space $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is a smooth manifold $M$, the fiber over a point $x \in M$ is its tangent space $T_xM$, and $E$ is the disjoint union of these tangent spaces with a suitable topology on it. A **vector field** on $M$ is an assignment to each $x \in M$ of a vector in its tangent space (in general this sort of assignment is called a section of the bundle), and so on.

The special case in which every fibre has dimension 1 is called a line bundle. Consider $S^1$ with its usual topology. Then there are two line bundles over $S^1$: the trivial bundle $S^1 \times \mathbb{R}$, which you can easily visualize as a cylinder, and one non-trivial one. This non-trivial vector bundle is called the Möbius bundle, and is the most natural mathematical description of a Möbius strip. It’s probably the simplest concrete example of a non-trivial vector bundle.

Okay, so what’s the actual problem? Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a connected topological space, and let $(E, \mathcal{U}, \pi)$ be a vector bundle on $(X, \mathcal{T})$. Show that there is a single non-negative integer $n$ such that
$$\dim(\pi^{-1}(x)) = n$$
for all $x \in X$.


