There isn’t really too much interesting to ask about finite products at this stage. We will more than make up for this when we start talking about infinite products, which are very interesting.


1.  Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ and $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ be topological spaces. Show that $X \times Y \cong Y \times X$.

  

2.  Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ and $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ be topological spaces, and let $A$ and $B$ be subsets of $X$ and $Y$, respectively. Show that $\overline{A \times B} = \overline{A} \times \overline{B}$ and $\operatorname{int}(A \times B) = \operatorname{int}(A) \times \operatorname{int}(B)$.

  

3.  Prove that the following topological properties are all finitely productive.

    (a) T0 and T1.

    (b) Separable.

    (c) First countable.

    (d) Second countable.

    (e) Finite (i.e., the underlying set of the space is finite).

    (f) Countable.

    (g) The property of being a discrete space.

    (h) The property of being an indiscrete space.

  

4.  Prove explicitly that $\mathbb{R}^2_{usual} = (\mathbb{R}_{usual})^2$. (Equal, not just homeomorphic.)

  

5.  Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ and $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ be topological spaces, and let $A$ and $B$ be subspaces of $X$ and $Y$ respectively. Show that the product topology on $A \times B$ defined from the subspace topologies on $A$ and $B$ is equal to the subspace topology $A \times B$ inherits from the product topology on $X \times Y$.

  

6.  Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ and $(Y, \mathcal{U})$ be topological spaces, and let $\pi_1$ and $\pi_2$ be the usual projections. Show that they are both open functions.

  

7.  Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space. Define a subset of $X^2 = X \times X$ called the diagonal by $\Delta := \{ (x, x) \in X^2 : x \in X \}$.

    Show that $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is homeomorphic to $\Delta$ with its subspace topology inherited from the product topology on $X^2$.

  

8.  Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space. Prove that $(X, \mathcal{T})$ is Hausdorff if and only if $\Delta$ (as defined in the previous problem) is closed in the product topology.

  

9.  Show that $(\mathbb{R}_{Sorgenfrey})^2$ is separable but not hereditarily separable.